[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# Comp.lang.cobol charter

_5 messages · 4 participants · 1997-11 → 1997-12_

**Topics:** [`Meta: FAQs, group policy, charter`](../topics.md#meta)

---

### Comp.lang.cobol charter

- **From:** "atho..." <ua-author-17071727@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1997-11-23T19:00:01+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3479fb12.32553909@news.mindspring.com>`

```

Does anyone have the comp/lang.cobol newsgroup charter? If someone
could post it or send it to me. I would like to take a look at it.

Thank you,
Alec Thomas
ath··.@min··g.com
```

#### ↳ Re: Comp.lang.cobol charter

- **From:** "arnold trembley" <ua-author-6588869@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1997-11-25T19:00:02+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-23ced2135a-p2@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<3479fb12.32553909@news.mindspring.com>`
- **References:** `<3479fb12.32553909@news.mindspring.com>`

```

This is a multi-part message in MIME format.
--------------6644C9D727E49CABE1E49FF5
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Alec Thomas wrote:
› 
› Does anyone have the comp/lang.cobol newsgroup charter?  If someone
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
› ath··.@min··g.com

A year or so ago I downloaded a FAQ for this newsgroup. I don't know
that anyone is updating it. I'll try to attach it to this posting.

Arnold Trembley
Software Engineer I (just a job title, still a programmer)
MasterCard International
St. Louis, Missouri
--------------6644C9D727E49CABE1E49FF5
Content-Type: text/html; charset=us-ascii; name="cobolfaq.htm"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Disposition: inline; filename="cobolfaq.htm"
Content-Base: "file:///C|/download/netnews/cobolfaq.h
tm"

comp.lang.cobol FAQ
This was found using a search engine. I tried to contact the author, but to
no avail. I make no guarantees as to the validity of anything in this FAQ.
It is merely provided as-is for informational purposes.



From: ja··.@her··o.uk (James Fidell)
Newsgroups: comp.lang.cobol,comp.answers,news.answers
Subject: COBOL FAQ
Followup-To: comp.lang.cobol
Date: 12 Feb 1996 21:58:56 -0000
Organization: at home, Newbury, Berkshire, UK.
Reply-To: ja··.@her··o.uk

Archive-name: cobol-faq
Posting-Frequency: every 30 days
Last-Modified: $Date: 1996/02/12 21:57:48 $
Version: $Revision: 1.109 $

Additional information and corrections are encouraged. Please send
comments to ja··.@her··o.uk.


0. CONTENTS

1. Changes since the last issue.

2. Where can I get this FAQ ?

3. Where can I get a COBOL compiler ?
3.1 for DOS, Windows or OS/2 ?
3.2 for Windows/NT ?
3.3 for UNIX ?
3.4 for Linux ?
3.5 for the Macintosh ?
3.6 for other environments ?

4. Is there a free COBOL compiler ?
4.1 for DOS, Windows or OS/2 ?
4.2 for Windows/NT ?
4.3 for UNIX ?
4.4 for the Macintosh ?
4.5 for other environments ?

5. What happened to Realia ?

6. Where can I contact...
6.1 Acucobol ?
6.2 Liant ?
6.3 Micro Focus ?
6.4 CA ?
6.5 RM ?
6.6 mbp ?
6.7 Wang ?
6.8 Sinc Inc. ?
6.9 Flexus ?

7. COBOL standards.
7.1 What standards exist ?
7.2 Can I get the standards via FTP ?

8. COBOL 6.50
8.2 How do I compile my programs ?
8.1 How do I link my objects ?

9. What about OO COBOL ?

10. Books about COBOL.

11. Is there a COBOL to C converter ?

12. COBOL code generators.
12.1 ADS/O
12.2 Telon

13. COBOL Tools.
13.1 Windowing
13.1.1 VanGui for RM/COBOL
13.2 Sinc Inc. products
13.2.1 FlexGen 4GL Rapid Application Development Environment
13.2.2 Legacy Liberator COBOL Migration Toolset
13.2.3 Easy Query
13.2.4 ODBC Access Tools
13.3 Misc. tools

14. Other sources of information.
14.1 Compuserve
14.2 Bix
14.3 Micro Focus Faxback
14.4 Micro Focus WWW server
14.5 CA WWW server
14.6 Liant Ryan McFarland WWW server
14.7 Acucobol WWW server
14.8 The COBOL Foundation
14.9 The IBM COBOL products WWW server
14.10 The Flexus WWW server

15. Information required for the FAQ.

16. Contributors to the FAQ.

17. Copying this FAQ.



1. Changes since the last issue.

Micro Focus no longer support Dialog System for UNIX

Link to IBM's COBOL WWW server

The ETK COBOL code generator

Much information from Bob Wolfe about Flexus


2. Where can I get this FAQ ?

This document should be archived at many sites on the Internet,
including rtfm.mit.edu -- the archive site for all FAQs. It is also
available via e-mail from the author (ja··.@her··o.uk).

An HTML version of the latest FAQ is also available from
http://www.OiT.co.uk/~james/faq/cobol-faq.html


3. Where can I get a COBOL compiler ?

3.1 for DOS, Windows or OS/2 ?

Acucobol, CA, Ryan McFarland, mbp and Micro Focus all produce
compilers for one or more of these environments. Microsoft used to
re-badge the Micro Focus compiler, but not any more.

3.2 for Windows/NT ?

Micro Focus has a COBOL 32-bit SDK available for Windows/NT
and also the OO COBOL product. ACUCOBOL-85 (again 32-bit) is
also available and mbp also have a product for this platform.

3.3 for UNIX ?

Acucobol, Ryan McFarland, mbp and Micro Focus have products
available across a large number of UNIX platforms. Some OEMs
re-badge and/or re-engineer these products for their own systems,
too.

Wang also produce a development and production environment
for the RS/6000 running AIX and HP 9000 s800 and s700 running
HP/UX and Liant have LPI COBOL available for Sun SPARC with
Solaris 2, HP 9000 with HP-UX and Intel-based machines with
UNIX SVR4, SVR3, and SCO.

3.4 for Linux ?

ACUCOBOL-85 is now available for Linux. Also, the iBCS2 code for
Linux should mean that it is possible to get some of the i486
COBOL packages for operating systems such as SCO UNIX to work.

Ralf Draeger (dra··.@inf··n.de) reports that
it is possible to get programs compiled using Micro Focus COBOL
on SCO UNIX to run on Linux.

Norman Hull (nor··.@i··.ie) adds :

Using Micro Focus COBOL v3.1 for SCO UNIX and Linux kernels
1.1.35 and 1.1.45 with the iBCS code, programs will compile
on Linux to .int code, but fail when data is entered (the
tictac demo. program fails with illegal character in numeric
field, whatever data is entered).

When the .int code is created under SCO and transferred to
Linux, it runs in exactly the same way as it does on SCO.

If compiled to .gnt code, the program runs without any
problems on Linux.

3.5 for the Macintosh ?

Micro Focus and Acucobol produce a COBOL development
system for the Mac running A/UX.

Micro Focus has also announced that it will be releasing
a product on MacOS. There are currently no dates for release.

3.6 for other environments ?

Ryan McFarland COBOL is also available for OpenVMS.

Most major vendors have their own COBOL implementation, or
have someone else's ported to their platform(s). There are
quite a few available for CP/M and MP/M, and one is even
rumoured to have been available for the PERQ workstation.


4. Is there a free COBOL compiler ?

Just for the record, no COBOL tools are listed in the Catalog
of compilers, interpreters, and other language tools posted to
comp.compilers and comp.lang.misc. This probably means that
there are no freely available COBOL compiler sources.

However, several books in the booklist come with a COBOL compiler.
See section 10 for details.


4.1 for DOS, Windows or OS/2.

There is a freely available COBOL compiler for DOS. It can be
found on many archive sites, named COBOL650.ZIP. You also need
DPATH30.ZIP. Have a read through Section 8 before you start.
Bob Wolfe has made the compiler available at the Flexus FTP site,
http://www.flexus.com.

It is widely rumoured that the sources for this compiler are
available from a BBS. This no longer appears to be the case.
Numerous attempts have completely failed to track down the
sources.

There is a COBOL701.ARJ archive which contains a version of
COBOL 6.50 with a limited number of compiles. It was an attempt
at a full integrated development environment, including an
editor. Unfortunately, no documentation is included.

Also, it may be possible to run the freely available CP/M
compiler (see 4.5) under a freely available CP/M emulator.

4.2 for Windows/NT ?

The CP/M compiler/emulator combination should work here, too.

4.3 for UNIX ?

There are no well-documented examples of a freely available COBOL
compiler for UNIX.

COBOL 6.50 might run under a UNIX emulation of a DOS system,
however. (For example, VP/ix, SoftPC or dosemu under Linux.)

The CP/M compiler (see 4.5) should run under a CP/M emulator
for UNIX in a similar fashion.

4.4 for the Macintosh ?

Not that I know of.

4.5 for other environments ?

There is a freely available CP/M COBOL compiler/interpreter
(NPS Micro COBOL). This is available via anonymous FTP
from oak.oakland.edu in /pub/cpm/cobol. However, Stefano Priola
(s70··.@gal··o.it) comments :

"I've used the CPM COBOL ... I think that this compiler is much
too old to use or for a student to learn COBOL."


5. What happened to Realia ?

Realia have been bought by Computer Associates (CA). Their
compiler is now called CA-Realia COBOL.


6. Where can I contact ...

6.1 Acucobol ?

Acucobol
7950 Silverton Avenue
Suite 201
San Diego, CA 92126

Tel: (619) 689 7220
Fax: (619) 566 3071

You can also call 1-800-COBOL-85 in the US.

Acucobol have a connection to the Internet and can be contacted
at in··.@acu··l.com and sup··.@acu··l.com.

6.2 Liant ?

LPI COBOL

Liant Software Corporation Liant Software Ltd.
959 Concord Street 2 Caxton Street
Framingham, MA 01701 St. James Park
USA London SW1H 0QE
UK

Tel: (508) 872-8700 Tel: +44 71 799 2434
Fax: (508) 626-2221 Fax: +44 71 799 2552

in··.@lpi··t.com in··.@lia··o.uk
sup··.@lpi··t.com


6.3 Micro Focus ?

Micro Focus Ltd. Micro Focus Inc.
Speen Court 2465 East Bayshore Road
7 Oxford Road Suite 400, Palo Alto
Newbury CA 94303
Berkshire USA
RG14 1PB
UK

Tel: +44 635 32646 Tel: 415 856 4161
Fax: +44 635 33966 Fax: 415 856 6134

In the US you can also call 1-800-VSCOBOL.

Micro Focus can be contacted via the Internet. The domain is
mfltd.co.uk.

6.4 Computer Associates ?

For product inquiries:

Computer Associates
One Computer Associaes Plaza
Islandia,
NY 11788-7000
USA

Tel: 1-800-CALL CAI (225-5224)

For technical inquiries:

Computer Associates
2400 Cabot Drive
Lisle,
IL 60532-3652
USA

Tel: (708) 505-6885

6.5 Ryan McFarland ?

Main Office:

Ryan McFarland
a Division of Liant
8911 N. Capital of Texas Highway
Suite 4300
Austin, TX 78759

Tel: (512) 343-1010
Fax: (512) 343-9487
Toll Free: 1-800-RM-COBOL

International:

Liant Software Ltd. Nippon Liant Co., Ltd.
2 Caxton Street 31-8 Takasecho
St. James' Park Funabashi City
London SW1H 0QE Chiba, 273, Japan
United Kingdom

Tel: +44 171-799-2434 Tel: +81 47-437-9816
Fax: +44 171-799-2552 Fax: +81 47-437-9818

Sales information is also available by e-mail from
rm_··.@li··t.com


6.6 mbp ?

In Germany,

mbp Softwareentwicklungsgesellschaft mbH
Tools & Compiler
Semerteichstr. 47-49
D-44141 Dortumnd

Tel. +49 231 944 1465
Fax +49 231 944 2413


In the US,

mbp Software and Systems Technologies, Inc.
1131 Harbor Bay Parkway, Suite 260
Alameda,
CA 94501

Tel: (510) 769-5333
Fax: (510) 769-5735

In the US, you can also call 1-800-231-6342.

6.7 Wang ?

Wang Laboratories, Inc.
One Industrial Avenue
Lowell, MA 01851
USA

Contact Stephen Bergmann : 508 967 6547
or Bob Mance : 508 967 7001

Fax : 508 967 5110

Wang are also on the Internet. Their domain is wang.com.

6.8 Sinc Inc. ?

Sinc, Inc EasiRun Europa Gmbh
Dayton Usingen,
Ohio Germany

Tel: 513-438-5553 Tel: (0)6081 91603
Fax: 513-438-5377 Fax: (0)6081 916049

E-Mail: glu··.@day··n.net E-mail: 100··.@com··e.com
Compuserve: 75224,3207 Compuserve: 100641,3271


EasiRun International EasiRun Australia
Johannesburg, Sydney,
South Africa NSW

Tel: (0)11 421 4800 Tel: (0)2 955 5058
Fax: (0)11 421 4999 Fax: ()4 754 4359

E-Mail: Email: 100··.@com··e.com
pa··.@eas··o.za Compuserve: 100250,1216

6.9 Flexus

Flexus,
PO Box 640,
Bangor,
PA 18013-0640

Tel: 610 588 9400
Fax: 610 588 9475
BBS: 610 863 4740

E-mail: in··.@fle··s.com, tec··.@fle··s.com


7. COBOL standards.

7.1 What standards exist ?

The current COBOL standard is the ISO/ANSI '85 standard. This
replaced the ANSI '74 standard.

There are two amendments to the COBOL '85 standard --
intrinsic functions and corrections.

ISO should be producing a new standard in 1997. Don Nelson is
the editor and has offered to answer any questions about it.

7.2 Can I get the standards via FTP.

The standards do not appear to be available via FTP. This is
probably because they are very large and are copyrighted by
ANSI and/or ISO, although the issue of copyright is put into doubt
given the following statement from Bill Klein :

Whether or not the next COBOL Standard will or will not
be copyrighted is a matter of discussion and argument. As
the current Standard was put into the "public domain" and
the next standard is a "derrived" work, it is questionable
whether or not the next Standard will have an ISO or ANSI -
or any other copyright.


8. COBOL 6.50

8.1 How do I compile my programs ?

It is assumed you have installed cobol650.zip in the directory
C:\COBOL650. In install.doc you will find some information on
running the compiler.

1) Add C:\COBOL650 to the PATH

2) Run APPEND on C:\COBOL650 :

APPEND C:\COBOL650

The install.doc contained in cobol650.zip refers to a program
DPATH.COM to be run instead of APPEND. The DOS program APPEND
seems to work too.

3) Now you can compile your .cob files as explained in
install.doc.

When trying to compile sources in a directory other than that
where the compiler is installed, the compiler terminates without
an error. This restriction is not documented in install.doc,
which is probably a result of using APPEND instead of DPATH.

The compiler accesses drive A:. You should have a disk in this
drive.

Peter Mikalajunas adds :

To avoid the need to use drive A:, you should do the following :

subst a: c:\cobol650

When you type A: you will drop into the C:\COBOL650 subdirectory.
The compiler will behave normally at this point, not constantly
searching drive A:.

When you are done with a session do the following :

C:
subst a: /D


8.2 How do I link my objects ?

There is no linker with the COBOL 6.50 compiler. To link
objects you need to use the linker from MS-DOS v3.3 or earlier.

Ralf Laemmel adds :

You can use newer linkers, especially from newer Microsoft
compiler products, too.

And Peter Mikalajunas has found that :

Tlink compiled with obj files without complaint, but the exe's
were useless. What did work was Link version 5.31.009 which
comes with Visual Basic for DOS. It compiled all obj files I
tried and the exe's ran perfectly.

Clinton G. Downing also reports :

The linker from IBM DOS v2.1 does now work, at least on the
PS/2 70. The MS-DOS v3.3 linker works fine, however.

Steve ??? has reported some success
with a linker from the SimTel archives. Look for sl101a.zip.


9. What about OO COBOL ?

The following is largely taken from a posting by Michael Jesse Chonoles
(cho··.@acc··e.com) :

"The X3J4.1 Object-Oriented COBOL Task Group has approved a technical
report with recommendations that it be included in the next full COBOL
Language Standard by the X3J4 committee."

Micro Focus has an OO COBOL product. It does not conform exactly
to the OO COBOL proposal currently being discussed, however
-- the syntax is a subset of the current proposal with a few
variations. For example, "object-storage section" is used instead
of "working-storage section" for object data. Multiple inheritance,
conformance and garbage collection are not implemented. Also,
vocabularies are implemented though these are not currently part of
the proposed standard.


10. Books about COBOL.

"Advanced ANSI COBOL with Structured Programming (2nd ed.)",
ISBN 0-471-54786-7
by Gary DeWard Brown, published by John Wiley & Sons.
Apparently this is one of the few books which covers ANSI 85 COBOL.

"Application Programming and File Processing in COBOL",
ISBN 0-669-16570-0
by Yuksel Uckan, published by D.C. Heath and Co., 1992
This is also available in two volumes :

"Application Programming in COBOL (Volume 1)". ISBN 0-669-28207-3.
"File Processing in COBOL (Volume 2)". ISBN 0-669-28208-1.

"COBOL 85 For Programmers", ISBN 0-444-01232-X
by Don Nelson, published by North-Holland, price 10 USD.
It is available only from the author.

"COBOL 85 For Programmers", ISBN 0-471-92156-4
by Jim Inglis, published by John Wiley and Sons.
First edition in 1989, 287 pages.
Third reprint cost 17.50 UKP, May '91.

"COBOL: Der Einstieg", ISBN 3-8006-1673-4
by Andreas Tietz, published by Vahlen Verlag, Muenchen.
A German language book.

"COBOL from Micro to Mainframe", ISBN 0-13-138686-7
by Robert Grauer, published by Prentice Hall.
This includes a disk containing a student edition of CA-Realia COBOL
and interactive COBOL debugger.
US price (May '94) : $55
This book may have been released as several volumes and as a complete
work. I'm not sure to which the ISBN applies. The ISBN
0-13-140179-3 has been suggested for Volume I by William Fang
.

"The COBOL Presentation Manager Programming Guide", ISBN 0-442-01293-4
by David M. Dill, published by Van Nostrand Reinhold.

"Comprehensive Structured COBOL", ISBN unknown
by L. Wayne Horns. Comes with an RM compiler.

"Comprehensive Structured COBOL (Third edition)", ISBN 0-534-91781-X
by Gary S. Popkin, published by PWS-KENT (Division of Wadsworth Inc).
Covers ANSI-74 and ANSI-85 COBOL in detail. Highly recommended by
m.w··.@rea··o.uk.

"Modern COBOL Programming", ISBN 0-394-39100-4
by Price/Olson published by McGraw Hill
Comes with RM/COBOL-85
US price (June '94): ~$55

"Object Orientation: An Introduction for COBOL programmers",
ISBN unknown, by Raymond Obin published by Micro Focus Press.

"OS/2 Presentation Manager Programming for COBOL Programmers",
ISBN unknown, by Robert B. Chapman, published by John Wiley & Sons.

"The Revolutionary guide to COBOL with compiler" ISBN 1-874416-17-6
by Yevsei Handel and Boris Degtyar. Comes with a disk containing a
COBOL compiler written by Dmitry Bronnikov.

Published by Wrox Press Ltd, 1334 Warwick Rd, Birmingham, UK.

"Comprehensive COBOL" ISBN 0-07-909613-1 (5.25 inch disks)
by Bradley ISBN 0-07-836549-X (3.5 inch disks)
Includes a Liant RM/COBOL-85 DOS compiler and development environment
US price ( April '94): $60.50

"Structured COBOL, 3rd Edition" ISBN 0-07-835423-4 (5.25 inch disks)
by Welburn/Price ISBN 0-07-836489-2 (3.5 inch disks)
Includes a Liant RM/COBOL-85 DOS compiler and development environment
US price (April '94): $67.38

The above two books may be ordered from Mitchell/McGraw Hill,
Tel: (800) 338-3987 (US only) or (619) 426-5000

Juergen Linkens adds :

The compiler is limited as following:
- max. 800 lines of code
- max. 4 files
- max. 1000 records per file
- max. 100 bytes per file record

BTW, the editor coming with it isn't very good either.

This is not meant to be a complaint, just a hint for future
issues. I never expected a fully unlimited compiler for a
book price, just a few less limitations.

"Structured ANSI COBOL Part 1 : A Course for novices using a subset
of 1974 or 1985 ANSI COBOL" ISBN unknown
by Mike Murach and Associates Inc. (1987)

"Structured ANSI COBOL Part 2 : An advanced course using 1974 or 1985
ANSI COBOL" ISBN unknown
by Mike Murach and Associates Inc. (1987)

"Structured COBOL with Business Applications", ISBN unknown
by Stanley E. Myers published by Prentice Hall.

"Teach Yourself COBOL in 21 Days", ISBN 0-672-30469-4 by Mo Budlong,
published by SAMS Publishing/MacMillan Computer Publishing

"Structured COBOL Programming (7th Edition)", ISBN 0-471-30580-4
by Stern & Stern, published by John Wiley & Sons.
Comes with a syntax guide and an order form for a special offer
cut-down RM/COBOL 85 or Micro Focus Personal COBOL (unmodified).


11. Is there a COBOL to C converter ?

Asking this question anywhere appears to generate much general
flamage and general language wars and very little useful
information.

No such beast is listed in the free compilers FAQ, but an ad
has appears in the US publication "Programmer's Shop Catalog"
for COBOL to C (and PL/I to C) translators. Contact :

Micro-Processor Services,
92 Stone Hurst Lane,
Dix Hills,
NY 11746

Tel: (516) 499 4461


A toolset for conversion from COBOL to several other languages
is available. A tool first produces structured diagrams
(Nassi-Shneiderman) from existing source files. Structural
errors are identified and you can edit to correct them. Another tool
takes those same diagrams and produces source code in one of several
languages (COBOL, C, Ada, Basic, Clipper, dBaseIV, Fortran, Modula
2, Natural, PL/1, etc.)

The toolset is called XperCase by Siemens, and is available
in the US from:

Boston Technical Distribution Corp.
3 Center Plaza, Suite 440
Boston,
MA 02108

Tel: (617) 248-8989
Fax: (617) 248-8986

Laurent Sabarthez contributed :

Some years ago I was Project Leader on a software project termed
COBTOC (COBol TO C translation). The company is by now out of
business, but the rights on this product were purchased by NSI
(Network Solutions Inc., Herndon, VA, USA - Emitt McHenry was
Chairman).

COBTOC is actually a translator generator. It can produce a
specialized translator for any reasonable COBOL dialect, given
a dialect description very close to the usual syntax notation
one can find into any COBOL Reference Manual. "semantics"
peculiarities are also described in this way.

Once a translator has been produced in this way, a source
management module allows automated translation of the COBOL
source modules. A run-time library is also automatically
produced as a by-product of the translator.

The COBTOC user gets a set of C files, each being the
translation of a corresponding COBOL file. You can get K&R C,
ANSI C, or common variants like Turbo C. The overall structure
of the COBOL program is preserved upon translation. Identifiers
are straightforward transformations of COBOL names. Paragraph
structure and flow control are also preserved, like all name
space properties attached to I/O and file management.

The C files are compiled and linked withthe run-time library,
which supports data handling, edition, arithmetic, direct I/O,
file I/O and transaction management (e.g. CICS).

Excutables are intnded to run on any platform supporting POSIX C
compiling and standard library linkage.

COBTOC was left by my co-workers and me in an alpha release
state, mid 1993.

I don't know the end of the story, but NSI should provide more
up-to-date information about it.

There is also a project running to create a COBOL to C converter
(possibly COBOL to C++ ?) available under the GNU licence. For more
details, see http://rucs2.sunlab.cs.runet.edu/~msharov/cobcy/cobcy.html,
the COBCY WWW page.

Some people consider that it is possibly cheaper to hire someone
to do the conversion job than to have a program produce C code
which could be quite difficult to read and maintain.


12. COBOL code generators

[Regrettably I don't have the original posters' names for these
comments -- James]

Telon and ADS/O are both COBOL code generators. They are primarily
used to develop commercial (that is non-scientific) applications
such as payroll and accounts packages. They claim to provide
significant improvements in programmer productivity (although the
jury is still out on this).

12.1 ADS/O

ADSO is an acronym for Cullinet's Application Development
System/Online, also referred to as ADS/Online.

12.2 Telon

Telon it is a cross between a code database and a code
generator. It can be used to store 'standard' sections of code
and 'custom' sections of code from which you can generate a
COBOL program by defining it to use certain sets of the standard
and custom code. This allows you to keep common code once in the
database and maintain it there.

Telon also offers support for screen design.

There is a PC version of the product as well as the mainframe
version. The PC version is by CA.

12.3 ETK

ETK (Easy ToolKit) was developed by SEMA Group in Belgium. It is
now marketed by TOSC International, Inc :

TOSC International, Inc.
3900 Essex Lane, suite 250
Houston, TX 77027

Tel: 713 961 1201
Fax: 713 961 4989

Contact Ted Langlie. TOSC will also soon be on the Internet.

ETK works with a repository where the programmer/analyst
describes the system to be generated in terms of data domains,
elements, tables, relationships, business rules, and data
mappings. From this description ETK generates complete
COBOL-based applications that will run on many platforms.


13. COBOL Tools

This section documents some of the add-on tools that are available
for use with COBOL compilers. Further submissions are welcomed,
but please try to keep them as free from marketing "hype" as
possible.

13.1 Windows and Windowing.

13.1.1 VanGui for RM/COBOL.

VanGui consists of two major components: a design tool and
a runtime system. The design tool is a Windows application
which provides COBOL developers with the capability to
define windows, populate those windows with standard Windows
and VBX controls, adjust the properties of those controls
and attach COBOL event-handling logic to their events.

The VanGui Runtime is a Windows .DLL that manages Windows
messages, provides runtime support for the controls, and
provides a COBOL interface to the Windows API.

For more information on VanGui, see
http://www.liant.com/rm/toolset/vangui.html.


13.1.2 Dialog System for Micro Focus COBOL

Dialog System provides a design tool for defining windows
and their contents and creating code for manipulating data
and events within those windows.

The resulting output is platform independent, allowing code
to be transferred between DOS/Windows, OS/2 and UNIX. Under
UNIX, only the character-based version of Dialog System is
still supported -- support for the X11 version has been
stopped.

13.1.3 Flexus COBOL spII

COBOL spII allows the COBOL programmer to create GUI or
character mode screens using ANSI standard COBOL CALL
USING statements. COBOL spII screen definitions and
source programs are 100% COBOL compiler independent, 100%
operating system independent and 100% text mode to GUI mode
independent.

Automatic screen conversion tools for many proprietary
environments are also available from Flexus. These automate
the task of converting screen definitions from proprietary
character mode screens to GUI screen definitions.

13.2 Sinc Inc. products

13.2.1 FlexGen 4GL Rapid Application Development Environment

A repository-based, data dictionary-driven tool set and code
generator. It supports and generates code for RM/COBOL,
Acucobol, Micro Focus COBOL, Realia (DOS Only), mbp (DOS Only)
and runs and deploys under DOS, Windows, Windows 95, NT,
many flavours of UNIX, VAX/VMS and Open VMS.

13.2.2 Legacy Liberator COBOL Migration Toolset

For rehosting proprietory COBOLs, converting them to
open systems, Acucobol, RM/COBOL or MF COBOL. User interfaces
can be converted to FlexGen user interfaces including the
ability to upgrade them to GUI.

13.2.3 Easy Query

A point-and-shoot report writer and query tool.

13.2.4 ODBC Access Tools

Allows Windows ODBC-enabled applications to access COBOL data.

13.3 Misc. tools

13.3.1 Flexus WinPrint

COBOL WinPrint allows the COBOL programmer to make ANSI
standard COBOL CALL USING statements to completely control
and communicate with the Windows Print Manager. Forms
may be designed interactively with the Forms Editor to
include bitmaps, special fonts, colors and many other
modern features. These reports may be viewed on the screen
prior to printing or sent directly to the Print Manager.

14. Other sources of information.

14.1 Compuserve

Micro Focus runs a COBOL Forum on Compuserve. Just

GO MICROFOCUS

to get to it.

CA also has a Forum. To get to this, use

GO CAIDEV

Liant has a Forum too, to support the RM/COBOL and
Relativity(TM) family of products. To access it, use

GO LIANT


14.2 Bix

There is a COBOL forum on Bix. Don Nelson is the moderator.

14.3 Micro Focus Faxback

In Palo Alto, Micro Focus runs a system for obtaining certain
technical information by fax. You need a tone-dial 'phone
to use it.

The number is (415) 496 7170.

14.4 Micro Focus WWW server

Micro Focus has a WWW server covering many COBOL issues. The
URL is http://www.mfltd.co.uk/

14.5 CA WWW server

CA also has a WWW server. It's URL is http://www.cai.com/

14.6 Liant and Ryan McFarland WWW server

Liant has a WWW server at http://www.liant.com/. This server also
hosts the RM WWW site at http://www.liant.com/rm/.

14.7 The Acucobol WWW server

This is at http://www.acucobol.com/.

14.8 The COBOL Foundation

Dave McFarland, formerly of Ryan McFarland, has begun an
organization aimed at promoting COBOL and providing information
to and about the COBOL community. Members (including RM, MF,
and IBM) pay yearly dues and in return are included in the
Foundation's promotion efforts, literature, directories, etc.
and have their company and product information posted on the
Foundation's web server. The URL for the server is
http://www.cobol.org/

14.9 The IBM COBOL products WWW server

This is at http://www.software.ibm.com/ad/cobol/cobol.htm

14.10 The Flexus WWW server

Contains all sorts of information, including a copy of the
COBOL 650 compiler. It's at http://www.flexus.com/


15. Information required for the FAQ.

Corrections and additions to existing material are always welcome.

I'd like to add a section of reviews of different COBOL books. If
I am sent any reviews I will collate them and add these to the FAQ.

More information on the COBOL standards and later updates would
be useful.

A section covering COBOL programming could be worthwhile.


16. Contributors to the FAQ.

The following people have contributed to the creation of this FAQ :

James Fidell
Don Nelson
Clarence A Booth, Jr.
Kelly Brown ???
Gary Henry
Stan Cox
Gary Crook
Robert D. Davis
Uwe Baemayr
Bernd Backhaus
Wayne Gallant
Jonathan Beit-Aharon
Stefano Priola
Todd G. Beets
Joachim Blome <100··.@com··e.com>
John M.
Kathleen McSpurren
Thomas Koehler
Al Sinclair
Mike Wilson
Erkki Ruohtula
Ralf Laemmel
Tom Willard
Peter Mikalajunas
Laurent Sabarthez
Norman Hull
Juergen Linkens
Clinton G. Downing
Ryan Stryker
Chuck McComas
Leif Svalgaard
Bob Wolfe


17. Copying this FAQ.

This FAQ is copyright 1994, 1995, 1996 by James Fidell. It may be
freely redistributed as long as it is completely unmodified and that
no attempt is made to restrict any recipient from redistributing
it on the same terms. It may not be sold or incorporated into
commercial documents without the the written permission of the
copyright holder.

Permission is granted for this document to be made available
for file transfer from sites offering unrestricted file transfer
on the Internet and from the COBOL Forums on Compuserve and Bix.

This document is provided as is, without any warranty. Your
mileage may vary.
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: Comp.lang.cobol charter

- **From:** "the goobers" <ua-author-1837635@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1997-11-26T19:00:03+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-23ced2135a-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<gap-23ced2135a-p2@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **References:** `<3479fb12.32553909@news.mindspring.com> <gap-23ced2135a-p2@usenetarchives.gap>`

```

Arnold Trembley wrote:
› 
› Alec Thomas wrote:
…[9 more quoted lines elided]…
› that anyone is updating it.  I'll try to attach it to this posting.

Party-pooper! And here I was, getting ready to hint at the instituting
of a semi-annual tithe to the Church of Shploingy, funnelled through me,
of course... you really know how to ruin a day!

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Comp.lang.cobol charter

- **From:** "michael dodas" <ua-author-6589016@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1997-11-30T19:00:04+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-23ced2135a-p4@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<gap-23ced2135a-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **References:** `<3479fb12.32553909@news.mindspring.com> <gap-23ced2135a-p2@usenetarchives.gap> <gap-23ced2135a-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`

```

The Goobers wrote:
› 
› Arnold Trembley wrote:
…[17 more quoted lines elided]…
› DD

Hate to ruin it a little more, DD, but here is the link to
comp.lang.cobol:

The direct like to the charter:

ftp://ftp.uu.net/usenet/news.announce.newgroups/comp/comp.lang.cobol


Link to various newsgroup information:

http://web.superb.net/islander/howto/netnews.html

Mike Dodas

(Remove CUTTHEJUNK for e-mail replies)
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Comp.lang.cobol charter

- **From:** "the goobers" <ua-author-1837635@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1997-12-01T19:00:05+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-23ced2135a-p5@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<gap-23ced2135a-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **References:** `<3479fb12.32553909@news.mindspring.com> <gap-23ced2135a-p2@usenetarchives.gap> <gap-23ced2135a-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`

```

Alec Thomas wrote:
› 
› The Goobers  wrote:
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
› Goober....Go do something useful.

Lead a life bound by Mere Utility? What drudgery you propose!

DD
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
