[ŌåÉ Index](../README.md) ┬Ę [Topics](../topics.md) ┬Ę [Years](../years.md) ┬Ę [Subjects](../subjects.md) ┬Ę [Authors](../authors.md)

# The Big Picture

_40 messages ┬Ę 21 participants ┬Ę 2000-10 ŌåÆ 2000-11_

---

### The Big Picture

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-16T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Hi:

Some days ago, I made a casual comment about paragraph-names
and the meaningless ones I use. Of course, this unleashed
a torrent of criticism. Most of the comments I make
also unleash vitriolic gushings. Most of the people
in the CLC think I am some mindless dimwit living in the
past - this is only partially true. Anyway, it dawned
on me that some of my comments have been out of context
and could require explanation.

So, here is an explanation.

My minimalist paragraph-names are just a reflection of a VERY
comprehensive COBOL methodology I use for the development of
commercial application systems. Perhaps, taken out of
context, they seem unattractive and undesirable. In context,
they become attractive and desirable.

Everything I ever say in CLC pertains to the development
of new applications. It is has nothing to do with maintaining
legacy systems, interfacing with existing systems or
anything to do with existing systems. It is purely about
developing new (or rewritten) business applications in COBOL.

Anyone who has worked for a while on ordinary COBOL
commercial applications starts to realize that there is
a certain sameness about business programs. After you
have written your tenth report program, it will
occur to you that you are rewriting the same program
over and over again, just changing the parts pertaining
to the application, report format, changing control
breaks, etc.

The essential logic of all report programs is the same
without regard to the nature of the report. The essential
nature of processing data in all business applications is
the same, only the data and business rules change.

If this were not true there would be no REPORT-WRITER
or Report Program Generator (RPG), or, even, if you
go back that far, FARGO. Going further back, IBM
would not have been able to manufacture tabulating
equipment had not the essential logic of the hardware
applied to every type of business allowing them to
sell identical equipment to everybody.

In another recent thread, a student complained about
the difficulties he had learning control breaks.  Every
programmer has to learn about these elementary things
at the beginning of their career and, usually, each
devises a solution which satisfies them. The solutions
may differ by individual. This is one of the reasons
maintenance is so difficult.

As time goes by, the programmer realizes that most of
the programs they write contain the same stuff. How many
times do you have to code the same fields for dates, the time,
subscripts, page and line counts, etc., before you get sick
and tired of it and make a general-purpose working-storage
copy and have done with it?  Doesn't everyone do this?
How long does it take the average newcomer to start creating
their own copies? Do they? Is this suggested in the COBOL courses?

How many times do you have to write an error routine,
or a routine to validate states before making a general-
purpose routine which you can use forever?

Like everybody else, I have my standard copies. There is one
general-purpose working-storage copy which is in every program
even though only one or two fields may be used in a particular
program. This copy has 300 items in it. Some of the things in
it are: program-id, special-purpose literals like a smiley-face,
13 subscripts (X1 thru X13), 13 subscripts to be used by
subroutines (X1-SR thru X13-SR), printer fields like: page size,
line count, page count, formatted date and time fields (filled
in by subroutine), the system date and time (with Y2K provisions),
standard fields for file status (WS-FSTAT), return-key (WS-FKEY),
a bell character, a standard error-message area, the alphabet and
special characters, print areas for seven printers, handy edit
fields with pics like: Z9, ZZ9, ZZZ9, Z,ZZ9, and so on, fields
for general-purpose touchscreen routines, a couple of single-
character fields for simple responses (WS-OPT and WS-ANS),
standard US State and Canadian Province codes, escape
sequences for opening cash drawers, data fields used by
common subroutines, device addresses for printers, and so on.
These are the things which every programmer needs. If anybody would
like a copy, email me.

Effectively, the names in the working-storage copy are
extensions to the reserved-word list for the compiler.
After a short while you don't even think about them
anymore, you just use them naturally and, they are short
and sweet and easy-to-remember and easy-to-type.

In the olden-days, it would not have been practical to have
a 300-line copy stuck in every program, especially on an 8k
1401. These days when memory is virtually unlimited and speeds
are ridiculous, who cares whether most of the 300 lines are
unused in a particular program. Since most programs compile in
less than one second, excluding the 300 and replacing them
with only those required, would be a pointless exercise.
Taking the time to code your own version of the things you
needed and excluding the w-s copy would be really dim.

The names in the working-storage copy are short and sweet
because they are used over and over and over.

Subscripts, as mentioned, are named X1 thru X13. Calling
them SUBSCRIPT-ONE wouldn't help a lot. The X1 terminology
was invented, I think for 1410 Autocoder. I liked it then
and I like it now. Short, sweet, effective. Why change?
Saying PERFORM BLAH VARYING BLAH-SUBSCRIPT Just makes the
BLAH statements ugly - MOVE HAT-SIZE (BLAH-SUBSCRIPT)
vs MOVE HAT-SIZE (X1). (The 'X' stood for Index-Register).

Names for frequently-used items like PAGCNT, LINCNT,
PAGSIZ are short and self-explanatory. Everybody knows
them and EVERYBODY uses them, or else!

Like everyone else, I have a bunch of sub-routines. Most
were written for MS COBOL on a Tandy 2000 (80186) in 1982
when I abandoned the mainframe world to concentrate on
the PC. They worked then, they work now - why change them? - for the
sake of fashion? Their data fields are in the general-purpose
working-storage copy.

I have routines which: Print to any of seven printers, get
the date and time and format both of them, standard all-
purpose error routine, validate State/Province, upcase
a string, upcase first character of words within a string,
Julian/Gregorian conversion, and so on. I am sure everyone has
their own collection. In accordance with my naming convention
subroutines are performed thus: PERFORM S9908 THRU S9908X.
S9908 is the name of the standard error routine. Everyone
knows this, changing it to PERFORM STANDARD-ERROR-ROUTINE
THRU STANDARD-ERROR-ROUTINE-EXIT wouldn't make it any better.
The standard print-area is called PA. To print, you
move your stuff to PA and then PERFORM W1A, W2A, W3A, or WTOP
(print after advancing 1, 2, 3 lines and top-of-page). As you
know, some programs have dozens of print statements,
surely PERFORM W1A is preferable to PERFORM PRINT-AFTER-ADVANCING-ONE,
yes?

In this case, short names make sense, especially if you
look on them as extensions to the reserved-word list.

Anyway, enough about standard copies and subroutines which
everyone uses anyway, don't they?

What I have which hardly anybody else has are two skeleton
programs (File-Maintenance and Report). Virtually any application
can be built using just these two things. Before you light your
flame-thrower, let me just say that I have used the methods
I am talking about and have built systems using these two
skeletons for companies as diverse as Estee Lauder,
Time-Warner, Exxon Research & Development, Bunge Corporation,
National Shoes, American Insurance Association, IBM, etc.
Because of the methodology, I was easily able to develop
applications on my PC and then port them to a VAX system
or anything else in no time flat.

The skeletons contain the general-purpose working-storage
copy and the subroutines.

My own POS software was created from these two skeletons. You may
occasionally come across the need for a special program
but not often. I don't claim to have invented skeletons
and I am sure there are other people who do what I do.
You can write your own, structured if you want.

Going back to the sameness of report programs which allowed
things like REPORT-WRITER to be invented, most people could
spend time and come up with a skeleton program which covered
the most essential logical elements of a general-purpose
report program. In my case, I spent a considerable amount of
time creating my skeletons until they were fool-proof and
considered every eventuality. The skeletons are functionally
perfect, programs made from them are too. How nice.

Because the skeletons are general-purpose, you can't have
application-specific paragraph-names. Because everyone
using the methodology is throughly familiar with the skeletons,
it becomes unnecessary to use long paragraph-names. The
names are single-letter with a small suffix and are in
alphabetical order. For example, in the file-maintenance
skeleton, the 'E' paragraphs accept an Action code from
the user which tells the program what the user wants to
do; the 'K' paragraphs are where the program does screen-io
in response to the user; the 'L' paragraphs edit user-entries
and construct records, and so on.  Since all programs are
made from the same skeleton, these rules hold forth
throughout and the technicians know them well.

The technician would know that a new screen field would
require new code in the 'K' paragraphs where the data is
accepted, and in the 'L' paragraphs where records are
edited and constructed.

I don't design for the mouse (except in touchscreen stuff)
and use the usually-ignored function keys for navigation and
control.  For this reason, I explicitly accept fields and
test the return-key after each accept. Any frequently-used
business application which forces the user to go from
keyboard to mouse over and over is infuriating.

In the File-Maintenance skeleton, the groups of related
fields on a screen are given a function-key value; for
example; to jump to a name and address area press F2,
to jump to another area, press F3 and so on.
When finished, the user presses F8 to file the record.
The ESC or up-arrow is used to backup to the preceding
field. F1 is used if the user changes their mind and
returns them to the Action in paragraph 'E'. This gives
the user COMPLETE control and convenience WITHOUT the
use of the mouse.

In the 'K' paragraphs, the paragraph-names reflect the
field numbers on the screen. It isn't necessary to have
a meaningful name for the paragraphs since the first
statement in each one moves the NEXT-FLD-ID to SP2 so
you know what field it is. CONVERSE is the SP2 'ACCEPT'.
K99, which is in every program, tests the RETURN-KEY from
SP2 and sets WS-FKEY to an appropriate value representing
the function-key pressed.

The code below contains the ONLY use I make of DEPENDING ON.
It just works very nicely for responding to function-keys.

The code shown is that which accepts the three
parts of the social-security number. The user can type
the number, or press F1 to forget-about-it, or ESC to
backup to the preceding field, or function-keys to leap
to other parts of the screen.

If you look at the code out of context then you might
say that it is not well-documented or easy to understand.
Look at it in context however, and it is pure and simple.
Being familiar with the model, you just know that all user
I-O is done in the 'K' paragraphs and that each field
on the panel has its own paragraph and that they are
executed in a specific sequence. So, the short names are
appropriate in this context. XFM60 is the program name
and primary panel name. Changing the names to something
like 600-ACCEPT-SOCIAL-SECURITY-PART1 really would be
pointless. Imagine the GO TO if long names were used.

In the future, if you needed to add new fields between
K10 and K11, for example, the names would be K10A, K10B, etc.
The following is taken from one of my POS systems:

       K10.
           MOVE XFM60-SS-1-I TO XFM60-NEXT-FLD-ID.
           PERFORM CONVERSE.
           MOVE XFM60-SS-1 TO WS-SS-1.
           PERFORM K99.
           GO TO K02A, E, K01, K09, K14, L L L L DEPENDING ON WS-FKEY.
       K11.
           MOVE XFM60-SS-2-I TO XFM60-NEXT-FLD-ID.
           PERFORM CONVERSE.
           MOVE XFM60-SS-2 TO WS-SS-2.
           PERFORM K99.
           GO TO K10, E, K01, K09, K14, L L L L DEPENDING ON WS-FKEY.
       K12.
           MOVE XFM60-SS-3-I TO XFM60-NEXT-FLD-ID.
           PERFORM CONVERSE.
           MOVE XFM60-SS-3 TO WS-SS-3.
           PERFORM K99.
           GO TO K11, E, K01, K09, K14, L L L L DEPENDING ON WS-FKEY.
           (Corresponding to ESC, F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7, F8)

		*	*	*	*	*

I have a Customer Manager program which maintains my customer/
contact file. It was made from the File-Maintenance skeleton in 1982.
In addition to the basic Actions for adding, changing, deleting
records, etc., the program has about 20 additional Actions for
things like printing envelopes, customer directories, backup,
and so on.  Anyay, I recently needed to add a new Action, one
which would read my customer file and write an ASCII file
containing email addresses. Since everything I needed was
already in the main program, all I needed to do was code
the procedure - about 30 lines. The code appears below.

Again, if you were to look at this code out of context,
you could heap scorn upon it. (Of course, some people
are going to heap scorn anyway, but they are the ones
who don't get the Big Picture.)

The routine is executed if the user types Action '6';
IF WS-ACT = '6' PERFORM EMAIL-LIST THRU EMX. EMAIL-LIST
is used for documentary purposes and is an example of how
meaningful names ARE used - as required. Since all the
letters of the alphabet are used up in the main
program (made from skeleton), the paragraph names
in the subroutine borrow from their purpose. So,
the names are EMA thru EMX. The routine which prints
envelopes is called EVA thru EVX, and so on.

The data names in the code would be known to the technician
via the directory and reference to the appropriate copies.
For clarification, FFP01A is the name of the customer file
(in accordance with naming convention), RFP01-B is the
second alternate key for that file. To know what the key
consists of the technician refers to the record-description
copy (RFP01). S9912 is the routine which upcases a string.
W-WORK is in the standard working-storage copy, as is
the subscript X1. S9908 is the standard error-message
routine. W-WORK and W-STRING are in the standard working-
storage copy. W-FSTAT is the standard file-status code. My
technician would know all of this by heart.

This code will horrify people because it is upper-case,
not structured, uses punctuation on every line, has
meaningless paragraph-names, it contains a GO TO
in a performed paragraph, etc. If you are overly
sensitive to this type of code, have a quick drink
before continuing. . .

On the other hand, I see some advantages:

1. It is very easy to read.
2. It is compact and contains no superfluous code as
   would be found in a structured program.
3. Within the context of the methodology it is easy to understand.
4. It is easier and faster to type.
5. It is highly portable.
6. Anyone can understand it.
7. Because it is merely another Action in a larger program which
   contained everything it needed, no data division entries were
   required (the usual case).
8. Functionally, I don't think it can be improved.
9. No time is spent licking one's metaphorical pencil while
   dreaming up unique long paragraph-names and then, later on, wondering
   how you spelt them. . .
10. It is written quickly and efficiently.

(NB: File FFP01A is opened before the routine is used.)

      *
      *    CREATES FILE WITH EMAIL ADDRESSES IF '@' IN FP-CONTACT.
      *
	EMAIL-LIST.
		OPEN OUTPUT ASCIIFILE.
		IF W-FSTAT NOT = '00' GO TO EMB.
	EMA.
		MOVE 'I' TO RFP01-B.
		START FFP01A KEY IS NOT < RFP01-B INVALID KEY GO TO EMB.
		IF W-FSTAT NOT = '00' GO TO EMB.
		GO TO EMC.
	EMB.
		MOVE 'Status Error in EMB.' TO W-ERR.
		PERFORM S9908 THRU S9908X.
		GO TO E.
	EMC.
		READ FFP01A NEXT AT END GO TO EMX.
		IF W-FSTAT   NOT = '00' GO TO EMB.
		IF FP-STATUS NOT = 'I'  GO TO EMX.
	EMD.
		MOVE FP-CONTACT TO W-WORK.
		PERFORM S9912 THRU S9912X.
		MOVE W-WORK TO ASCII.
		MOVE W-WORK TO W-STRING.
		PERFORM EME VARYING X1 FROM 1 BY 1 UNTIL X1 > 40.
		GO TO EMC.
	EME.
		IF W-CHAR (X1) = '@'
       	   GO TO EMF.
	EMF.
		WRITE ASCII INVALID KEY GO TO EMB.
		GO TO EMC.
	EMX.
		CLOSE ASCIIFILE.
		IF W-FSTAT NOT = '00' GO TO EMB.

Would it help any if EMA were changed to EMA-START-CUSTOMER-FILE?
Would it be any better if it were structured?

Admittedly, the sample given is small. However, large programs are
divided into discrete functions where each is coded as above.

The problem with this sort of methodology is that 'real programmers'
hate it and will fight it whenever possible. 'Real programmers' want
to exercise their creativity, they do not want to be bound to standards.
'Real programmers' want to enlarge their skill-set with as many things
as possible.

In the olden-days, when I hired people, a lot of them would lose
interest when told that they would have to adhere to strict standards.
So, I hired raw trainees. People who had completed any COBOL course.
Prior experience undesirable. Computer Science degree undesirable.
In those days, as today, newcomers found it hard to get a job
because of their limited skill-set/experience (Although skill-sets
hadn't been invented then).

So, goodbye, 'real programmers'; hello COBOL technicians.

The people I hired were grateful to get the job. My employer was happy
because they only wanted $12,000.00 to begin. They were happy to
get the training and they were universally delighted to see that
they could actually create real programs which actually worked
with so little effort and so soon after starting work. My boss
loved it because we were so productive and never missed deadlines.
Now, programs are manufactured, using screens designed with Flexus
SP2, by taking a copy of the skeleton, making global changes
to file and record names, and inserting the application-specific
code. Technicians work at the DOS prompt (see thread 'Only for
COBOL newbies').

On day one, hour one, my new employee (if I needed one) would be
presented with the following:

-An explanation of the methodology.
-Naming convention for files, copies, routines, record and data names
 and everything else.
-A printed directory listing all programs, copies, etc.
-Printed copies of all subroutines, standard copies, etc.
-Copies of the File-Maintenance skeleton and the Report skeleton.

They would be locked in their room until they became very familiar
with the whole thing. Then they would be given simple programs
to manufacture until they gained experience.

The advantages to using an extensive and mimimal methodology
are sort of overwhelming, here are some of them:

a. Limited skill-set - only COBOL and SP2 required.
b. Lower-cost employees.
c. Faster (cheaper) development.
d. Predictable development time (enables actual planning).
e. Reduced testing time - only the application-specific code needs test.
f. Low-cost maintenance - all the programs are the same.
g. Several people can write code for one program all at once without
   talking to each other.
h. Unparalleled dependability - all programs are made from the perfect
models.
i. Very high degree of portability.
j. Lower software-tool expense.
k. Easy to find technicians.
l. Short training time for technicians.
m. Standardized mode of operation for all programs.
n. Training of users virtually eliminated due to self-documentation of
   software and standard mode of operation.
o. Mouse virtually eliminated.
p. Printed documentation eliminated.
q. Distribution costs less because of compact size of systems.
r. It is staggeringly synergistic.

These are sound business reasons for adopting such a methodology,
aren't they?

Yes, I've been doing things the same way for years. No, I don't
stay with the fashion. No, I am not going to change. This methodology
worked in the sixties, it works now and it will work 'til the
end of time. To change it would be to change it for the sake of
change.

Sure, I could (actually, I couldn't) rewrite the skeletons to
be structured but I would still need those paragraphs where
the technician inserts the application code. Why bother?

You could write your own structured skeletons and do everything I do
but in a structured way.

The objective must be to stop people from writing programs from
scratch in their own style and to make them all the same, as they
should be.

If you are interested in seeing a program made using the methodology
go to foodman123.com/tcs.htm.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth












Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

#### Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** "Cliff Peterson" <cliffpeterson@spamcop.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-17T05:08:26+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
"Foodman" <foodman123@aol.com> wrote in message
news:8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com...
> Hi:

Hi, Tony.  I want to make my comments about your post, but let me make a few
statements up front.  First, as I've said in a previous post, I have the
highest respect for an entrepreneur who is successful.  Regardless of the
style or content of your programs, your ability to make a living from your
own ability and resourcefulness is admirable.

> Some days ago, I made a casual comment about paragraph-names
> and the meaningless ones I use. Of course, this unleashed
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> and could require explanation.

As I said, I would not be one of those who considers you a "mindless
dimwit".  I reserve those comments for those who say "my teacher told me
never to do it like that".

> So, here is an explanation.
>
ŌĆ”[4 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> they become attractive and desirable.

After reviewing your attached code, I agree with your use of minimalist
paragraph names.  Your style is unstructured and very assembler- (or
AUTOCODER-) like, requiring numerous jumps to other sections of the code.
The resulting blizzard of paragraph names are impossible to name - most of
them don't title a section but just provide a place to land from a GO TO.

> Everything I ever say in CLC pertains to the development
> of new applications. It is has nothing to do with maintaining
> legacy systems, interfacing with existing systems or
> anything to do with existing systems. It is purely about
> developing new (or rewritten) business applications in COBOL.

Today's new development is tomorrow's "legacy system" and tomorrow's
"existing system".  New applications need the most attention, since they
establish the framework for decades of enhancements.

> Anyone who has worked for a while on ordinary COBOL
> commercial applications starts to realize that there is
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> breaks, etc.

Reusing code is a great idea.  Most shops do it.  Personally, I can't
remember the last time I wrote a program from a blank screen.

> The essential logic of all report programs is the same
> without regard to the nature of the report. The essential
> nature of processing data in all business applications is
> the same, only the data and business rules change.

Agreed, as a veeerrrrry general statement...

> If this were not true there would be no REPORT-WRITER
> or Report Program Generator (RPG), or, even, if you
ŌĆ”[4 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> sell identical equipment to everybody.

Also agreed.  In addition, the COBOL language finally removed the tyranny of
rewrites when moving from one platform to another.  I made a lot of money
converting AUTOCODER and SAAL to COBOL.

> In another recent thread, a student complained about
> the difficulties he had learning control breaks.  Every
ŌĆ”[4 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> maintenance is so difficult.

Most development shops have standards for this.  Most good programming
courses teach this.  It's hard to learn because it's hard.  We soon learn to
do it in a standardized way, masking the complexity.

> As time goes by, the programmer realizes that most of
> the programs they write contain the same stuff. How many
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> their own copies? Do they? Is this suggested in the COBOL courses?

Reuseable code.  Taught just about everywhere today.

> How many times do you have to write an error routine,
> or a routine to validate states before making a general-
> purpose routine which you can use forever?

Most development shops address this: "standard error codes" or "standard
error routines".

> Like everybody else, I have my standard copies. There is one
> general-purpose working-storage copy which is in every program
> >snip.....................
> These are the things which every programmer needs. If anybody would
> like a copy, email me.

I'd love to get a copy, Tony.  Thanks!  I'm always in "beg mode"...

> In the olden-days, it would not have been practical to have
> a 300-line copy stuck in every program, especially on an 8k
ŌĆ”[6 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> needed and excluding the w-s copy would be really dim.

Personally, I prefer to place these things in a called program, then provide
instructions for using the call.

> The standard print-area is called PA. To print, you
> move your stuff to PA and then PERFORM W1A, W2A, W3A, or WTOP
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> yes?

No problem.  I might prefer PERFORM PRINT-AFTER-1, but no quibbling...

> In this case, short names make sense, especially if you
> look on them as extensions to the reserved-word list.

Like I said, I prefer using a called program for this stuff.  Then, the
working-storage variables are hidden from view.


> ...............(snip)
> The skeletons contain the general-purpose working-storage
ŌĆ”[6 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> You can write your own, structured if you want.

Again, I have my stuff in a called program.  That way, if I need to change
the read routine because of a file format change, I just change the called
program.  Skeletons usually contain repeated program code, unless you mean
that it contains exclusively DIVISION and COPY statements.  Repeated code
means that corrections to the underlying procedures requires searching
hundreds
of programs for a specific structure.

> Going back to the sameness of report programs which allowed
> things like REPORT-WRITER to be invented, most people could
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> perfect, programs made from them are too. How nice.

Well...
READs are functionally perfect, but programs made from them aren't.  READ is
an assembly language "skeleton" - using READ triggers a ton of assembler
steps in the compile..  What I'm trying to say is that a "skeleton" program
is useless unless you change it, and there's the rub.  Once you change it,
it's not your skeleton any more.

Come to think of it, a skeleton program is just legacy code adapted to a new
purpose, isn't it?

> I don't design for the mouse (except in touchscreen stuff)
> and use the usually-ignored function keys for navigation and
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> keyboard to mouse over and over is infuriating.

With the narrow exception of POS, you're probably the only one who's
infuriated.  Most business applications provide for keyboard entry of
repetitive tasks, but it's amazing how seldom they're used.  In POS, since
there's usually no mouse, the issue is moot.

> the names are EMA thru EMX. The routine which prints
> envelopes is called EVA thru EVX, and so on.

Again, absolutely correct in an unstructured program, since many of the
paragraph names don't describe a function, but simply provide a GO TO
target.

> The data names in the code would be known to the technician
> via the directory and reference to the appropriate copies.
ŌĆ”[9 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> technician would know all of this by heart.

Some of this is necessary, but some just increases the training time of your
new programmer.  S9908 could be ERR-MESSAGE-RTN or some such.  Conciseness
can go too far.

Also, I notice in your code that you have a routine for uppercasing a string
(essentially a one-statement operation), but you don't have one to START and
READ your master file.  What's up with that?

> This code will horrify people because it is upper-case,
> not structured, uses punctuation on every line, has
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> before continuing. . .

I use uppercase and punctuation...  But you GO TO out of a performed
paragraph that could have been ended simply.  It took me a minute to figure
out what you were doing.

> On the other hand, I see some advantages:
>
> 1. It is very easy to read.

Stumped me at first until I applied some indentation.

> 2. It is compact and contains no superfluous code as
>    would be found in a structured program.

What's superflous?  END-IF?

> 3. Within the context of the methodology it is easy to understand.

I would differ with you.

> 4. It is easier and faster to type.

Don't care.  I'll touch-type.  Shortening names just to speed development is
just folly.

> 5. It is highly portable.

What makes it more portable than other COBOL code?

> 6. Anyone can understand it.

I couldn't, at first.

> 7. Because it is merely another Action in a larger program which
>    contained everything it needed, no data division entries were
>    required (the usual case).

One line in a copybook makes a data division.

> 8. Functionally, I don't think it can be improved.

ANY code can be made to work, even if it has one letter variables and no
indentations.  The Appollo missions ran on large nests of FORTRAN code.
Nasty. Unreadable.  Functionally, though, it probably couldn't be improved.

> 9. No time is spent licking one's metaphorical pencil while
>    dreaming up unique long paragraph-names and then, later on, wondering
>    how you spelt them. . .

Structured code requires LESS paragraphage.  Paragraph names under
structured programming denotes SIGNIFICANT sections of the code.

> 10. It is written quickly and efficiently.

Like I said, your "skeleton" is done by most shops every day.

> (NB: File FFP01A is opened before the routine is used.)
>       *
ŌĆ”[33 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> IF W-FSTAT NOT = '00' GO TO EMB.

My equivalent (eyeball compiled only):

    OPEN OUTPUT ASCIIFILE.
    IF W-FSTAT NOT = '00'
        PERFORM ERROR-END
    END-IF.

    MOVE 'I' TO RFP01-B.
    START FFP01A KEY IS NOT < RFP01-B.
    IF FFP01-NOT-OK
        PERFORM ERROR-END
    END-IF.

    PERFORM READ-FFP01.
    PERFORM UNTIL FFP01-NOT-OK OR
                  FP-STATUS    NOT EQUAL 'I'
        MOVE FP-CONTACT TO ASCII
        INSPECT ASCII CONVERTING
              "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz" TO
              "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ"
        MOVE ZERO TO X1
        INSPECT ASCII TALLYING X1 FOR '@'
        IF X1 > 0
            WRITE ASCII
            IF W-FSTAT NOT EQUAL '00'
                PERFORM ERROR-END
            END-IF
        END-IF
        PERFORM READ-FFP01
    END-PERFORM.

    CLOSE ASCIIFILE.
    IF W-FSTAT NOT = '00'
        PERFORM ERROR-END
    END-IF.

READ-FFP01.
    READ FFP01A NEXT.
    IF FFP01-NOT-OK
        PERFORM ERROR-END
    END-IF.

ERROR-END.
    MOVE 'Status Error in EMB.' TO W-ERR.
    PERFORM S9908 THRU S9908X.
    GO TO E.

.....admittedly a few lines longer than yours, but contains two paragraph
names instead of eight.  I would, however, probably change all the reads,
writes, opens and closes to performed paragraphs.

> Would it help any if EMA were changed to EMA-START-CUSTOMER-FILE?

Nope.

> Would it be any better if it were structured?

IMVHO, yes.

> The problem with this sort of methodology is that 'real programmers'
> hate it and will fight it whenever possible. 'Real programmers' want
> to exercise their creativity, they do not want to be bound to standards.
> 'Real programmers' want to enlarge their skill-set with as many things
> as possible.

You didn't even use ELSE to simplify your code.  Do you require that of your
programmers?   Would you consider that to be an enlargement of their
skill-set?  Using a subset of a language doesn't denote skill.  Tiger Woods
has a whole bag of clubs and uses them all.  Your skill at COBOL is not
measured by how few verbs you can use.  More likely, it denotes a lack of
vocabulary.

> In the olden-days, when I hired people, a lot of them would lose
> interest when told that they would have to adhere to strict standards.

My background is banking.  We required strict standards and unbelievably
tight security.  We kept people without any problems.

> So, I hired raw trainees. People who had completed any COBOL course.
> Prior experience undesirable. Computer Science degree undesirable.

My assumptions:
1. You never involve the programmers in the development of your standards.
2. You never consider new styles of programming and how they would affect
new development.
3. You don't attempt to read up on new programming approaches, adopting the
good and tossing the bad.

> So, goodbye, 'real programmers'; hello COBOL technicians.

You want people who code in your style.  By your definition, you're a 'real
programmer', everyone who works for you is a 'COBOL technician'.

> Technicians work at the DOS prompt

I used to be a DOS guy.  I still go to DOS to do mass renames and stuff, but
my aversion to the mouse is not that strong.

> The advantages to using an extensive and mimimal methodology
> are sort of overwhelming, here are some of them:

(snippage of lots of "staggeringly" and "unparalleled")

> These are sound business reasons for adopting such a methodology,
> aren't they?

Well, yes and no.  Yes, they are great goals, but No, I can't imagine
adopting some of them in a 100 programmer shop.  Newbies without depth of
education or experience being thrust into development with 60s tools?
Newbies given the task of maintaining 60s code?  I reiterate, your skeleton
approach is essentially taking program A and modifying it until it becomes
program B.  Old stuff.  At least use BASIS or called modules to avoid
cloning code all over the place.

> Yes, I've been doing things the same way for years. No, I don't
> stay with the fashion. No, I am not going to change. This methodology
> worked in the sixties, it works now and it will work 'til the
> end of time. To change it would be to change it for the sake of
> change.

I'm probably as old as you.  I've worked 1401, Univac 1004, stood in front
of a sorter until I developed corns, wired collator boards.  But - I realize
that some of the new ways of doing things are actually better ways.  New
cars last longer than old cars because their engines are better.  New
products and methodologies are sometimes actually, well, better.

> Sure, I could (actually, I couldn't) rewrite the skeletons to
> be structured but I would still need those paragraphs where
> the technician inserts the application code. Why bother?

Tony, while I respect your ability greatly, you've let the world pass you
by.  You don't understand structured code, and worse, you condemn it because
you don't.

> You could write your own structured skeletons and do everything I do
> but in a structured way.

It's pretty much a standard in many shops today.  We call it reusable code.
We use loose coupling and information hiding, ideas generated from us 60s
guys influencing the education process.

> The objective must be to stop people from writing programs from
> scratch in their own style and to make them all the same, as they
> should be.

Did you notice how similar the programs were in "Show me your code"?
Precious little difference.  Structuring fosters that.

Tony, you're like the old man at the park who decries new cars, new houses,
new politicians, new hairstyles, new clothes.  Old isn't better, it isn't
worse - it's just old.  New isn't better, it's just new.

> If you are interested in seeing a program made using the
> methodology go to foodman123.com/tcs.htm.

I used to build programs that looked like this with Clipper.  Looks like a
DOS program sitting on my desktop.  Most users would say "where do I click"?
It's probably a good program, but since it's not standard windows, I
probably would look for another program by someone else.

Newbies should be encouraged to study the newer ways of coding.  Many are
better, some suck - anyone remember the Michael Jackson methodology?  Don't
expect people to stand idly by when you state, amish-like, that everything
after 1969 is evil.

Many of your detractors, being programmers, are somewhat socially
challenged, hence the vitriol.  Don't sweat it, and don't turn defensive.
Others in this NG can probably (gasp) actually teach you something.   I came
here to learn, and I certainly have succeeded.

Cliff
```

##### Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-10-17T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39EC2FA1.B84EFAFB@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com>`

```
Cliff Peterson wrote:

> > Anyone who has worked for a while on ordinary COBOL
> > commercial applications starts to realize that there is
ŌĆ”[9 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>

Reuse is about centralising the same logic in one place not having 50 copies of
the same logic having a potential time bomb.

Consider in Australia we use A4 paper which has 70 lines from top to bottom.
How many programs would that affect.   I would hasard a guess that 90% of the
programs out there need to change to cater for this.  I would also guess that
more than 20% would be non trivial to implement that change.  (wound up in
strange constants like  lines-left  equals 54).

The trick is to work out how to implement these things as subroutines.   This
is not nessecarily easy.  Report writer would be one place to start for this
specific problem.

Ken
```

##### Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** Merlin43PhD@netscape.net (Dwight Scott Miller)
- **Date:** 2000-10-17T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-p7ggYQcLvsvY@bryantx.216-88-236-42.dd.alpha1.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com>`

```
On Sun, 17 Oct 3900 05:08:26, "Cliff Peterson" <cliffpeterson@spamcop.net> wrote:

> I made a lot of money
> converting AUTOCODER and SAAL to COBOL.
> 
Hi Cliff!

I'm really not contributing to this thread, so please pardon me; I just was amazed to see another real , live SAAL coder!  The US Army probably *still* runs those ol' Univacs with thousands of lines of my SAAL, somewhere...

Best regards,
=Dwight=
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** "Cliff Peterson" <cliffpeterson@spamcop.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-18T05:11:53+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<tiaH5.20087$YX4.745415@news2.giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com> <B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-p7ggYQcLvsvY@bryantx.216-88-236-42.dd.alpha1.net>`

```
"Dwight Scott Miller" <Merlin43PhD@netscape.net> wrote in message
news:B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-p7ggYQcLvsvY@bryantx.216-88-236-42.dd.alpha1.net...
> Hi Cliff!
>
> I'm really not contributing to this thread, so please pardon me; I just
was amazed to see another real , live SAAL coder!  The US Army probably
*still* runs those ol' Univacs with thousands of lines of my SAAL,
somewhere...
>
> Best regards,
> =Dwight=
>
 Jeez - I thought I was the only one left!  You didn't write VERP, did you?

Cliff
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** Merlin43PhD@netscape.net (Dwight Scott Miller)
- **Date:** 2000-10-18T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-peV9uSxFTtpr@bryantx.216-88-236-203.dd.alpha1.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com> <B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-p7ggYQcLvsvY@bryantx.216-88-236-42.dd.alpha1.net> <tiaH5.20087$YX4.745415@news2.giganews.com>`

```
On Sun, 18 Oct 3900 05:11:53, "Cliff Peterson" <cliffpeterson@spamcop.net> wrote:

> You didn't write VERP, did you?

Nope, that was to "modern" for the outfits I was in.  I did do XS3 and I remember being awed when we got a machine with 16K RAM on it; it was 4 times what I was used to.
I started out on a Bendix LGP-30.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-10-18T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<W_gH5.11$qM6.1109@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-p7ggYQcLvsvY@bryantx.216-88-236-42.dd.alpha1.net> <tiaH5.20087$YX4.745415@news2.giganews.com> <B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-peV9uSxFTtpr@bryantx.216-88-236-203.dd.alpha1.net>`

```
In article <B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-peV9uSxFTtpr@bryantx.216-88-236-203.dd.alpha1.net>,
Dwight Scott Miller <Merlin43PhD@netscape.net> wrote:
>On Sun, 18 Oct 3900 05:11:53, "Cliff Peterson" <cliffpeterson@spamcop.net> wrote:
>
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>I started out on a Bendix LGP-30.

A Bendix?  When did they expand out of making bicycles and
washing-machines?

DD
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** Merlin43PhD@netscape.net (Dwight Scott Miller)
- **Date:** 2000-10-18T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-xXPZ4Nx3LUk1@localhost>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-p7ggYQcLvsvY@bryantx.216-88-236-42.dd.alpha1.net> <tiaH5.20087$YX4.745415@news2.giganews.com> <B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-peV9uSxFTtpr@bryantx.216-88-236-203.dd.alpha1.net> <W_gH5.11$qM6.1109@iad-read.news.verio.net>`

```
On Sun, 18 Oct 3900 12:48:54, docdwarf@clark.net (  NA) wrote:

> A Bendix?  When did they expand out of making bicycles and
> washing-machines?
> 

First '30 I worked on was around 1959-60 - it was new, but not brand new then
```

##### Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** ylad2845@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-11-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8u1ubc$u6m$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com>`

```
Please give me a definition of a "legacy system" and maybe a typical
example.  I would appreciate it.



In article <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com>,
  "Cliff Peterson" <cliffpeterson@spamcop.net> wrote:
> "Foodman" <foodman123@aol.com> wrote in message
> news:8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com...
> > Hi:
>
> Hi, Tony.  I want to make my comments about your post, but let me
make a few
> statements up front.  First, as I've said in a previous post, I have
the
> highest respect for an entrepreneur who is successful.  Regardless of
the
> style or content of your programs, your ability to make a living from
your
> own ability and resourcefulness is admirable.
>
ŌĆ”[10 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> dimwit".  I reserve those comments for those who say "my teacher told
me
> never to do it like that".
>
ŌĆ”[8 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> After reviewing your attached code, I agree with your use of
minimalist
> paragraph names.  Your style is unstructured and very assembler- (or
> AUTOCODER-) like, requiring numerous jumps to other sections of the
code.
> The resulting blizzard of paragraph names are impossible to name -
most of
> them don't title a section but just provide a place to land from a GO
TO.
>
> > Everything I ever say in CLC pertains to the development
ŌĆ”[6 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> "existing system".  New applications need the most attention, since
they
> establish the framework for decades of enhancements.
>
ŌĆ”[27 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Also agreed.  In addition, the COBOL language finally removed the
tyranny of
> rewrites when moving from one platform to another.  I made a lot of
money
> converting AUTOCODER and SAAL to COBOL.
>
ŌĆ”[9 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> courses teach this.  It's hard to learn because it's hard.  We soon
learn to
> do it in a standardized way, masking the complexity.
>
ŌĆ”[15 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Most development shops address this: "standard error codes"
or "standard
> error routines".
>
ŌĆ”[18 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Personally, I prefer to place these things in a called program, then
provide
> instructions for using the call.
>
ŌĆ”[4 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> > surely PERFORM W1A is preferable to PERFORM PRINT-AFTER-ADVANCING-
ONE,
> > yes?
>
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Like I said, I prefer using a called program for this stuff.  Then,
the
> working-storage variables are hidden from view.
>
ŌĆ”[10 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Again, I have my stuff in a called program.  That way, if I need to
change
> the read routine because of a file format change, I just change the
called
> program.  Skeletons usually contain repeated program code, unless you
mean
> that it contains exclusively DIVISION and COPY statements.  Repeated
code
> means that corrections to the underlying procedures requires searching
> hundreds
ŌĆ”[12 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> READs are functionally perfect, but programs made from them aren't.
READ is
> an assembly language "skeleton" - using READ triggers a ton of
assembler
> steps in the compile..  What I'm trying to say is that a "skeleton"
program
> is useless unless you change it, and there's the rub.  Once you
change it,
> it's not your skeleton any more.
>
> Come to think of it, a skeleton program is just legacy code adapted
to a new
> purpose, isn't it?
>
ŌĆ”[9 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> repetitive tasks, but it's amazing how seldom they're used.  In POS,
since
> there's usually no mouse, the issue is moot.
>
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Again, absolutely correct in an unstructured program, since many of
the
> paragraph names don't describe a function, but simply provide a GO TO
> target.
ŌĆ”[14 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Some of this is necessary, but some just increases the training time
of your
> new programmer.  S9908 could be ERR-MESSAGE-RTN or some such.
Conciseness
> can go too far.
>
> Also, I notice in your code that you have a routine for uppercasing a
string
> (essentially a one-statement operation), but you don't have one to
START and
> READ your master file.  What's up with that?
>
ŌĆ”[8 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> paragraph that could have been ended simply.  It took me a minute to
figure
> out what you were doing.
>
ŌĆ”[17 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Don't care.  I'll touch-type.  Shortening names just to speed
development is
> just folly.
>
ŌĆ”[16 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> ANY code can be made to work, even if it has one letter variables and
no
> indentations.  The Appollo missions ran on large nests of FORTRAN
code.
> Nasty. Unreadable.  Functionally, though, it probably couldn't be
improved.
>
> > 9. No time is spent licking one's metaphorical pencil while
> >    dreaming up unique long paragraph-names and then, later on,
wondering
> >    how you spelt them. . .
>
ŌĆ”[91 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> .....admittedly a few lines longer than yours, but contains two
paragraph
> names instead of eight.  I would, however, probably change all the
reads,
> writes, opens and closes to performed paragraphs.
>
ŌĆ”[10 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> > to exercise their creativity, they do not want to be bound to
standards.
> > 'Real programmers' want to enlarge their skill-set with as many
things
> > as possible.
>
> You didn't even use ELSE to simplify your code.  Do you require that
of your
> programmers?   Would you consider that to be an enlargement of their
> skill-set?  Using a subset of a language doesn't denote skill.  Tiger
Woods
> has a whole bag of clubs and uses them all.  Your skill at COBOL is
not
> measured by how few verbs you can use.  More likely, it denotes a
lack of
> vocabulary.
>
> > In the olden-days, when I hired people, a lot of them would lose
> > interest when told that they would have to adhere to strict
standards.
>
> My background is banking.  We required strict standards and
unbelievably
> tight security.  We kept people without any problems.
>
ŌĆ”[4 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> 1. You never involve the programmers in the development of your
standards.
> 2. You never consider new styles of programming and how they would
affect
> new development.
> 3. You don't attempt to read up on new programming approaches,
adopting the
> good and tossing the bad.
>
> > So, goodbye, 'real programmers'; hello COBOL technicians.
>
> You want people who code in your style.  By your definition, you're
a 'real
> programmer', everyone who works for you is a 'COBOL technician'.
>
> > Technicians work at the DOS prompt
>
> I used to be a DOS guy.  I still go to DOS to do mass renames and
stuff, but
> my aversion to the mouse is not that strong.
>
ŌĆ”[9 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> adopting some of them in a 100 programmer shop.  Newbies without
depth of
> education or experience being thrust into development with 60s tools?
> Newbies given the task of maintaining 60s code?  I reiterate, your
skeleton
> approach is essentially taking program A and modifying it until it
becomes
> program B.  Old stuff.  At least use BASIS or called modules to avoid
> cloning code all over the place.
>
> > Yes, I've been doing things the same way for years. No, I don't
> > stay with the fashion. No, I am not going to change. This
methodology
> > worked in the sixties, it works now and it will work 'til the
> > end of time. To change it would be to change it for the sake of
> > change.
>
> I'm probably as old as you.  I've worked 1401, Univac 1004, stood in
front
> of a sorter until I developed corns, wired collator boards.  But - I
realize
> that some of the new ways of doing things are actually better ways.
New
> cars last longer than old cars because their engines are better.  New
> products and methodologies are sometimes actually, well, better.
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Tony, while I respect your ability greatly, you've let the world pass
you
> by.  You don't understand structured code, and worse, you condemn it
because
> you don't.
>
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> It's pretty much a standard in many shops today.  We call it reusable
code.
> We use loose coupling and information hiding, ideas generated from us
60s
> guys influencing the education process.
>
ŌĆ”[7 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Tony, you're like the old man at the park who decries new cars, new
houses,
> new politicians, new hairstyles, new clothes.  Old isn't better, it
isn't
> worse - it's just old.  New isn't better, it's just new.
>
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> I used to build programs that looked like this with Clipper.  Looks
like a
> DOS program sitting on my desktop.  Most users would say "where do I
click"?
> It's probably a good program, but since it's not standard windows, I
> probably would look for another program by someone else.
>
> Newbies should be encouraged to study the newer ways of coding.  Many
are
> better, some suck - anyone remember the Michael Jackson methodology?
Don't
> expect people to stand idly by when you state, amish-like, that
everything
> after 1969 is evil.
>
> Many of your detractors, being programmers, are somewhat socially
> challenged, hence the vitriol.  Don't sweat it, and don't turn
defensive.
> Others in this NG can probably (gasp) actually teach you something.
I came
> here to learn, and I certainly have succeeded.
>
> Cliff
>
>


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** Arnold Trembley <arnold.trembley@worldnet.att.net>
- **Date:** 2000-11-05T05:18:54+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3A04ED6A.BEA0D8FA@worldnet.att.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com> <8u1ubc$u6m$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
ylad2845@my-deja.com wrote:
> 
> Please give me a definition of a "legacy system" and maybe a typical
> example.  I would appreciate it.

A "legacy system" is one that is still in use - because it works, and
solves some kind of business problem.

Typical examples can be found in many places.  
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** "Cliff Peterson" <cliffpeterson@spamcop.net>
- **Date:** 2000-11-05T06:18:57+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<lZ6N5.1245$mq1.105682@bgtnsc04-news.ops.worldnet.att.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com> <8u1ubc$u6m$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
<ylad2845@my-deja.com> wrote in message news:8u1ubc$u6m$1@nnrp1.deja.com...
> Please give me a definition of a "legacy system" and maybe a typical
> example.  I would appreciate it.

"Legacy" is a euphemism for old.  In normal DP use, it means anything in the
shop not written in the language or technique currently in vogue.  Often,
software salespeople use it to distinguish their product, as in "...and then
we'll interface (or convert) all of your legacy systems...".

I'm always amused to hear upper management say "our legacy applications"
instead of "our old crap", when that's what they really mean.

Cliff
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** "Joel C. Ewing" <jcewing@acm.org>
- **Date:** 2000-11-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3A0577CC.443C92AF@acm.org>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com> <8u1ubc$u6m$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <lZ6N5.1245$mq1.105682@bgtnsc04-news.ops.worldnet.att.net>`

```


Cliff Peterson wrote:
> <ylad2845@my-deja.com> wrote in message news:8u1ubc$u6m$1@nnrp1.deja.com...
> > Please give me a definition of a "legacy system" and maybe a typical
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> we'll interface (or convert) all of your legacy systems...".

This misuse of the word is indeed implied by those whose not-so-hidden
agenda is to promote a change to "their" development platform or "their"
vendor product.

> I'm always amused to hear upper management say "our legacy applications"
> instead of "our old crap", when that's what they really mean.

That's not what they mean.  The 1000's of application programs required
to run a major business and make it a success are not developed
overnight but over a period of years by many different teams of
programmers, who build on the work of prior teams.  In a very real
sense, any application that is a success and doing productive work
becomes a "legacy" application to those who follow.  Many PC weanies
don't understand that if you develop a workstation GUI application or a
web application for a company, the day after it is installed and doing
production work for the corporation, it is now a legacy system which
must be maintained.  

You have systems that are under active development, legacy systems doing
productive work and running the company, and archived systems (that used
to be legacy systems).
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "Cliff Peterson" <cliffpeterson@spamcop.net>
- **Date:** 2000-11-07T05:15:55+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<feMN5.3708$%%1.235027@bgtnsc05-news.ops.worldnet.att.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com> <8u1ubc$u6m$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <lZ6N5.1245$mq1.105682@bgtnsc04-news.ops.worldnet.att.net> <3A0577CC.443C92AF@acm.org>`

```

"Joel C. Ewing" <jcewing@acm.org> wrote in message
news:3A0577CC.443C92AF@acm.org...
> > I'm always amused to hear upper management say "our legacy applications"
> > instead of "our old crap", when that's what they really mean.
>
> That's not what they mean.  The 1000's of application programs required
> to run a major business and make it a success are not developed

In most shops, if they don't mean "our old crap", they don't call it
"Legacy".

My point is that when upper management refers to your application as
"legacy", watch out - they've embraced a new idea from a seminar they just
attended.  But... don't despair - in a year or two, they, their ideas and
several million dollars of development effort will be gone and your
application will remain.

And - they won't call it "legacy" any more.

Cliff
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** Liam Devlin <liamddd@optonline.net>
- **Date:** 2000-11-05T06:26:33+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3A04FD71.AA09BD51@optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <29RG5.57352$bI6.1996851@news1.giganews.com> <8u1ubc$u6m$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
ylad2845@my-deja.com wrote:
> 
> Please give me a definition of a "legacy system" and maybe a typical
> example.  I would appreciate it.

My understanding of "legacy system" is anything that runs on a mainframe
(you know, the dinosaurs which were going to be eliminated by 1995, or
so). Sample applications are many, e.g., the application that cut your
credit card statement, probably the ones that cut your paychecks &
brokerage statements, too.

LiamD
```

#### Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** thaneH@softwaresimple.com (Thane Hubbell)
- **Date:** 2000-10-17T06:15:54+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
I'm about to be blunt.

On Mon, 16 Oct 2000 12:17:45 GMT, Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
>The following is taken from one of my POS systems:
>
ŌĆ”[11 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>           GO TO K10, E, K01, K09, K14, L L L L DEPENDING ON WS-FKEY.


This is meaningless gibberish.  COBOL should be self documenting.
This is not.  This is impossible to read and understand.  The 400
lines of explanation that preceded this code snippet should have been
unnecessary.

Move Quantity-ordered to edited-quantity
Compute total-price = quantity-ordered * unit-price
Move total-price to display-price, edit-price

That kind of stuff is READABLE, UNDERSTANDABLE and MAINTAINABLE.

---
Try a better search engine:  http://www.google.com
My personal web site: http://www.geocities.com/Eureka/2006/
```

##### Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** yukonmama@aol.com (YukonMama)
- **Date:** 2000-10-18T04:30:27+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20001018003027.14708.00000194@ng-ct1.aol.com>`
- **References:** `<39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100>`

```
>From: thaneH@softwaresimple.com  (Thane Hubbell)
>Date: 10/17/00 2:15 AM Eastern Daylight Time

>I'm about to be blunt.
>
ŌĆ”[27 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>

Amen Thane.

I hope Mr. Dilworth intends to live forever or has his assets firmly out of his
companies hands because as soon as he goes to his reward and a client needs a
change the cost of such will be so high due to the time it will take to decode
the code, or to rewrite it, that the client may try to sue his estate to
recover said charges!

Eileen
```

##### Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-11-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8u1350$a4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100>`

```
In article <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100>,
  thaneH@softwaresimple.com (Thane Hubbell) wrote:
> I'm about to be blunt.
>
ŌĆ”[8 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> >           GO TO K02A, E, K01, K09, K14, L L L L DEPENDING ON WS-
FKEY.
> >       K11.
> >           MOVE XFM60-SS-2-I TO XFM60-NEXT-FLD-ID.
ŌĆ”[8 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> unnecessary.

Hi Thane:

'Meaningless gibberish', eh?

If you had taken the trouble to read the 400 lines, you might
have understood the above, evidently, you didn't.

So, I'll spell it out for you again.

A. According to my methodology, 95% of all business application
   programs are manufactured from one of two skeletons.

B. One of these, the 'File-Maintenance' skeleton contains
   paragraphs K01 thru K20. These paragraphs are the ones
   which accept data from the user. Application-Technicians
   using the methodology would be TOTALLY FAMILIAR with
   the sort of code discussed here.

C. The application-technician changes the code in the 'K'
   paragraphs to reflect the application. Unused paragraphs
   are discarded.

D. My applications do not use the mouse. They are, therefore,
   fast, convenient and easy to use. As I mentioned, the Function
   keys are used to file a record, backspace to preceding field,
   jump around the screen, etc. eliminating the need for the mouse.

E. In order to accomodate this convenience, the RETURN-KEY is checked
   after each CONVERSE (in K99) and the program goes to the appropriate
   'K' paragraph or elsewhere.

F. In the 'K' paragraphs the first statement tells SP2
   which field to accept next. The second statement calls
   SP2, the third statement moves the panel-field to the
   working-storage field.

   If you think these statements are 'meaningless
   gibberish', complain to Bob Wolfe, not me. They are
   required by SP2 which you oughta know.

G. The PERFORM K99 statement was explained in the original post
   and is used to test the RETURN-KEY and convert it to values
   usable in the GO TO.

H. The GO TO goes to the appropriate paragraph depending on
   what the user typed. Just imagine how horrible these GO TOs
   would be if some idiot had changed K10 to K10-ACCEPT, etc.
   Only a ninnie would change the code in the original skeleton.
   (And they would be terminated shortly thereafter.)

I. All the application-technician does is change the MOVEs
   in the skeleton to reflect the particular field. The other
   three statements remain untouched.

J. As I said in the original post (or words to that effect)
   was that only a mindless dimwit would change K10, for
   example, to K10-ACCEPT-FIRST-PART-OF-SS-NO.

K. As I said in the original post, anyone working with this
   methodology would be thoroughly familiar with all of this
   and would have NO PROBLEM WHATSOEVER understanding it.

L. EVERY program of this type manufactured using the methodology
   would have identical code (except for data-names). EVERYONE
   would "get it".

M. If you were to take the trouble to read those 400 lines
   which you evidently ignored, you would see that this code
   IN THE CONTEXT OF THE METHODOLOGY makes SENSE.

N. This methodology is not for 'Real Programmers'. It is intended
   for the purpose of manufacturing business systems using ordinary
   people - quickly and economically - and it REALLY WORKS.

So, Thane, try reading the original again. If you still don't agree
provide code which meets with your approval, in the context of
MY methodology.

> Move Quantity-ordered to edited-quantity
> Compute total-price = quantity-ordered * unit-price
> Move total-price to display-price, edit-price

The above code is TOTALLY IRRELEVANT to the topic.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-11-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<GFWM5.2545$5v6.43423@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100> <8u1350$a4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8u1350$a4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>, Foodman  <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
>In article <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100>,
>  thaneH@softwaresimple.com (Thane Hubbell) wrote:
ŌĆ”[25 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>'Meaningless gibberish', eh?

That seems to be Mr Hubbel's evaluation, aye.

>
>If you had taken the trouble to read the 400 lines, you might
>have understood the above, evidently, you didn't.

It might also be said that if the 400 lines were worth reading he might
have read them... see what can happen when one plays 'what if'?

>
>So, I'll spell it out for you again.

Oh my... this appears to be the tactic of 'When proven wrong one should
simply repeat one'sself in greater detail'!

>
>A. According to my methodology, 95% of all business application
>   programs are manufactured from one of two skeletons.

According to your your methodology has remained static through the changes
of the past few decades and is the result of your own experiences which,
when compared to the experiences of others, you admit to being anomalous.

[snippage]

>D. My applications do not use the mouse. They are, therefore,
>   fast, convenient and easy to use.

This is, of course, equally as supportable as 'This application uses the
mouse.  It is, therefore, fast, convenient and easy to use.'

[snippage]

>K. As I said in the original post, anyone working with this
>   methodology would be thoroughly familiar with all of this
>   and would have NO PROBLEM WHATSOEVER understanding it.

As has been said in other places, anyone working with Sumerian cuneform
would be thoroughly familiar with all of... something and would have NO
PROBLEM WHATSOEVER understanding it.

Mr Dilworth, one can 'get used to' just about *anything*... the question
becomes 'what is the advantage in getting used to it?'

In the case of the Dilworth Anomaly the advantage seems to be working with
code of the sort you've presented and *absolutely* *nothing* *else*.

>
>L. EVERY program of this type manufactured using the methodology
>   would have identical code (except for data-names). EVERYONE
>   would "get it".

Take a pile of... stuff.  Repeat it.  Claim that each pile is understood
if the original pile is understood.  Do not question the validity of the
first pile.

>
>M. If you were to take the trouble to read those 400 lines
>   which you evidently ignored, you would see that this code
>   IN THE CONTEXT OF THE METHODOLOGY makes SENSE.

It can be said that in the context of a slaughterhouse cutting throats
makes sense, too... just try not to carry that behavior elsewhere.

>
>N. This methodology is not for 'Real Programmers'.

For 'Fake Programmers', then?  No wonder it bears little resemblance to
what some call 'Real Programming.

>   It is intended
>   for the purpose of manufacturing business systems using ordinary
>   people - quickly and economically - and it REALLY WORKS.

Gol-lee... six weeks ago I couldn't even *spell* COBOL... an' today I
codes it!

DD
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** "William M. Klein" <wmklein@ix.netcom.com>
- **Date:** 2000-11-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8u1n2n$koc$1@slb7.atl.mindspring.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100> <8u1350$a4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
I didn't comment "much" on the original note, but I did want to say
something now that this thread seems to be going "again". (Please excuse me,
if I "misrepresent" any of the original points or comments since.  This note
is INTENDED to only express my impression of what has been implied - without
claiming to "quote it" or state it exactly.

In the original note, it was stated that a couple (two?) skeletons could be
modified to handle a LARGE percentage of business applications (for this
person's programming business).  These followed specific rules which (when
understood/remembered) made each modified version (for each individual
client/application) relatively easy to understand, bug-free, and easy to
create and modify.

What may surprise some, is that I actually (mostly) agree with this as a
valid approach.  The reason that I do so, is that there were (and to some
extent still are) a NUMBER of "code generator" programs (such as Telon, APS,
Pacbase, etc) which do exactly this.  These tools provide a set of
"relatively easy to use" interactive tools that allow one to enter input
layouts, output layouts (files, databases, screens, etc) and relatively
straight-forward "business rules" to define how you get from one to the
other.  Furthermore, they provide "user exits points" where more complicated
code may be entered for customized situations.  Often (as this relates to
the original note) they use a "minimalist" approach to COBOL so the
"generated" COBOL code works on a variety of compilers (old and new).

Therefore, this certainly is a technique that works for MUCH of what the
original note said that it would.

NOW, however, for why I disagree with the "thrust" of the original note:

1) The first rule-of-thumb that the vendors of those tools tell you is NEVER
maintain the generated code; ALWAYS use the "tool interface" for
maintenance.  This lets you work at the "business logic" level and leaves
your code "maintainable" at level that OTHER programmers can work at.

2) For anyone who tries to "ignore" the first rule, the generated code is
UGLY.  It is completely consistent, so (like that from the original note)
once you learn its convention, you CAN understand it - but there really is
no reason to do so - and once you start "playing with it" at the COBOL
source code level, you make it so that it is NOT consistent for others to
read and understand (even if you "try" and use its rules). (Obviously, this
is ONLY an issue if you are trying to create/maintain code that others can
also "work on" - now or in the future.)

3) If the PRIMARY "thrust" of your business is creating code that does this
type of application, then (IMHO) you should use one of the tools that is
being maintained and enhanced to do exactly this.  Not only does it mean
that OTHER people do the maintenance and debugging of the actual "skeleton"
stuff (so you are "free" to do the money-making portions of customization),
it also means that there is a "base of programmers" that could maintain
these applications and that does not tie you to your customers or your
customers to you.  Now, this may appear to be a "bad business" decision if
you want customers who can't get anyone else to support their applications,
but I think "you" will find that more customers will purchase packages that
are not limited to one programmer for support - than otherwise.
Furthermore, (and this may be why I got out of "contract programming" as
quickly as I did), I believe that there is an "ethical" demand to provide
clients with something that does NOT tie them to me forever - while
delivering applications that will make them WANT to stay with me.

  ***

Bottom-Line:
 Yes, it is possible to do MUCH (certainly not all - and the original poster
never claimed it was all) applications via "hard to understand - the first
time a new programmer looks at it" - BUT consistent code.  Such code
(whether skeletons or created by tools) often can be "debugged" at the
skeleton/tool level - thereby producing (as was indicated in earlier notes)
almost 100% "bug free" code.
 However, if this is the type of application that your clients want, then I
would recommend using one of the vendor tools (code generators) for doing
this and NOT re-inventing the wheel for yourself.
 Finally, it is my impression (and I could be mistaken on this) that the use
of such code generators (for COBOL, PL/I *and* C) have all been losing
"popularity" since the mid-80's or so when they were extremely popular. (I
do NOT consider the various Visual "builder" systems to be part of this
group - but they certainly do "follow-on" the tradition). There have been a
number of studies on WHY this happened, but my general impression is that it
is due to the "limitation" of the generators themselves *and* the lack of
demand to enhance them to keep up with diverging application demands *and*
the lack of trained people to take over existing systems created with such
tools.
  I would be interested in "input" from any of the NG readers who have used
"code generator" software - both from those who still use it and those who
don't.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** riplin@kcbbs.gen.nz
- **Date:** 2000-11-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8u1uaf$u6h$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100> <8u1350$a4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
  Foodman wrote:
> > >
> > >       K10.
> > >           MOVE XFM60-SS-1-I TO
XFM60-NEXT-FLD-ID.
> > >           PERFORM CONVERSE.
> > >           MOVE XFM60-SS-1 TO WS-SS-1.
> > >           PERFORM K99.
> > >           GO TO K02A, E, K01, K09, K14, L L L L
DEPENDING ON WS-
> FKEY.
> > >       K11.
> > >           MOVE XFM60-SS-2-I TO
XFM60-NEXT-FLD-ID.
> > >           PERFORM CONVERSE.
> > >           MOVE XFM60-SS-2 TO WS-SS-2.
> > >           PERFORM K99.
> > >           GO TO K10, E, K01, K09, K14, L L L L
DEPENDING ON WS-FKEY.
> >
> > This is meaningless gibberish.  COBOL should be
self documenting.
> > This is not.  > 'Meaningless gibberish', eh?
>
> If you had taken the trouble to read the 400 lines,
you might
> have understood the above, evidently, you didn't.
>
>    If you think these statements are 'meaningless
>    gibberish', complain to Bob Wolfe, not me. They
are
>    required by SP2 which you oughta know.

So, it it always someone else's fault is it ?

While -Next-Fld-Id _is_ an SP2 name, it is the _only_
part of this code that is understandable and has some
meaning in it (Next Field Identity). XFM60, -SS-1,
-SS-2, K02A, E, K09, ... are _not_ mandated by Bob
Wolfe or by SP2 and are completely meaningless.

Uou really just don't 'get it' do you, not even
enough to realise that these are valid criticisms
being directed at you.



Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** riplin@kcbbs.gen.nz
- **Date:** 2000-11-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8u20cg$vrq$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100> <8u1350$a4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
  Foodman  wrote:
>
> L. EVERY program of this type manufactured using
the methodology
>    would have identical code (except for
data-names). EVERYONE
>    would "get it".

There is a case to be made that many programs in a
simple system are structured much the same.  For
example record maintenance and report printing.

This, however, is not an excuse for turning these
into meaningless collections of codes just because
'they will be understood because they are _all_
meaningless'.  Consistency may be an excellent
objective (hence you are aggressive towards a change
to 'K20'), but you started with meaningless code and
now you just have consistent meaningless code.

And the repitition of programs is not an excuse in
itself either.  I solved (most of) the file
mainenance issue by writing one large file maint
program that use a dictionary and a screen layout
text file so that just one program can maintain most
of the data files in a system (it calls a simple file
handling module to actually access the data file).

I have also written a report writer that can produce
any number of listings and reports from the files
(using the handler module) by following a simple
script and using the dictionary.

This means that I don't have to constantly reproduce
simple programs (such as yours) to build a new system
or sub-system but spend my time designing the
dictionaries, screen layouts and report scripts and
developing the unique programs that make this new
system actually work.

Setting up mechanisms to reduce keystrokes (such as
your 'methodology') just so that recopying programs
is faster, is poor use of resources

I have also written program generators where this
also creates the core code of a program from a
maintenance screen layout.  The text input also
includes things like validation paragraph names for
fields so that the generated code is extensible.
This approach also reduces programmer time in
producing standardised systems which are very easy
and quick to extend and change.

None of this code dissolves into meaningless codes
such as yours.

> N. This methodology is not for 'Real Programmers'.
It is intended
>    for the purpose of manufacturing business
systems using ordinary
>    people - quickly and economically - and it
REALLY WORKS.

From what I have read previously you have had very
little experience working with other programmers and
certainly not with 'ordinary people' type
programmers, though perhaps some who have never seen
other code may be more impressed with yours.


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** thaneH@softwaresimple.com (Thane Hubbell)
- **Date:** 2000-11-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3a058020.44173138@207.126.101.100>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100> <8u1350$a4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Initially I wasn't going to comment on this.  But....


>Hi Thane:
>
ŌĆ”[4 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>

Let's try to keep this impersonal.  I didn't criticize YOU I critized
the code - which is what you requested when you posted it.

>So, I'll spell it out for you again.

No need, I read it the first time.  
>
>   If you think these statements are 'meaningless
>   gibberish', complain to Bob Wolfe, not me. They are
>   required by SP2 which you oughta know.
>

Uh, and if the field names were meaningful so the code would be.  It's
the artist not the paintbrush. 

>
>So, Thane, try reading the original again. If you still don't agree
>provide code which meets with your approval, in the context of
>MY methodology.

I don't agree, but it's not so important to me that I need to spend
time creating code to meet your approval.  Unless that is, you want to
pay me.  I'll even write code using YOUR generator if you want to pay
me.  (Oh, better mention a rate or DD will yell at me - $150.00 US per
hour) - Next available time slot?  Approx Feb 2001.


>
>> Move Quantity-ordered to edited-quantity
ŌĆ”[11 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>Before you buy.

---
Try a better search engine:  http://www.google.com
My personal web site: http://www.geocities.com/Eureka/2006/
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-11-05T17:53:56+11:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3A050404.5DFB9C50@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39ebeda1.546069425@207.126.101.100> <8u1350$a4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:

>
> So, Thane, try reading the original again. If you still don't agree
> provide code which meets with your approval, in the context of
> MY methodology.
>

It really is a shame you are not using OO.   You could codify the high
level process in an object and simply inherit in in all your applications
rather than potentially duplicating bugs through your system.    Yes the
skeleton has been in use for years,  is any program ever bug free?

Ken
```

#### Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** "Willem Clements" <willem@horizontes-informatica.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
On Mon, 16 Oct 2000 12:17:45 GMT, Foodman wrote:

> Lots of stuff deleted

In the mid 70's, I worked as a programmer in a large shop with about 120
programmers. They had the most strict programming rules you can imagine. The
main part of the PROCEDURE DIVISION was a framework that was included with a
COPY statement and that took care of calling other sections for performing
various functions. The framework used a large COPY structure in
WORKING-STORAGE to save control fields to determine level breaks and so on.
The naming scheme of SECTIONS and PARAGRAPHS was abstract A for the mainline,
B for initialization, C1 for reading the first file C2 for the second file G1
for processing a record from the first file F1 for the highest level break
and Uxx for other routines. Every programmer was trained in using this method
and it was strictly prohibited to write a new program without using these
structures.
Even the position of the instructions was completely defined, for example a
MOVE statement should begin in position 21, the word TO in position 41 and
the receiving field in position 46.
Of course, there also existed a lot of programs that were written before they
invented these rules.

I worked quite some time with a small group of programmers who only had to
solve the production problems and there I had to modify programs written by a
lot of different programmers and I learned a lot of things about programming
that they won't teach you anywhere. 

My conclusions.

- If everybody uses the same abstract names in the procedures, it is not too
difficult to understand the program, but for somebody who doesn't know the
filosofy, it is very difficult to find out what the program is doing.
- Even using this rigid structure, a lot of people are able to produce
complicated, illogic, inefficient and impossible to maintain programs.
- Some of the "old" programs, without any pre-defined structure are much
easier to understand and to maintain than the so-called structured ones.
- A bad programmer will write a bad program using these structures, but
without them the result will even be worse
- A good programmer will write a good program anyway

- Any standard is better than no standard at all.

Just my opinion
```

##### Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** shine98@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>`

```
What I like about standards is that there are so many to choose from :)

I'll agree with the food dude: subscripts don't need a descriptive name
because the subscript or index just acts as a pointer to the nth
element of an array. a-table-item (a-table-item-index) is no more clear
than a-table-item (ndx). the important thing is to know that the index
or subscript will not be stepped on by another procedure in the
program. This is an area where local variables at the paragraph level
would really help. COBOL doesn't have them and C++ does. I'd love it if
you could say:

.
.
.
paragraph-name.

01 sub-x pic 9(05) value 1.

perform varying sub-x from 1 by 1 until sub-x > 10
    display "Item=" a-table-item (sub-x)
end-perform

and sub-x would be created and destroyed with entry to and exit from
paragraph name.

UMMV

In article
<jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>,
  "Willem Clements" <willem@horizontes-informatica.com> wrote:
> On Mon, 16 Oct 2000 12:17:45 GMT, Foodman wrote:
>
> > Lots of stuff deleted
>
> In the mid 70's, I worked as a programmer in a large shop with about
120
> programmers. They had the most strict programming rules you can
imagine. The
> main part of the PROCEDURE DIVISION was a framework that was included
with a
> COPY statement and that took care of calling other sections for
performing
> various functions. The framework used a large COPY structure in
> WORKING-STORAGE to save control fields to determine level breaks and
so on.
> The naming scheme of SECTIONS and PARAGRAPHS was abstract A for the
mainline,
> B for initialization, C1 for reading the first file C2 for the second
file G1
> for processing a record from the first file F1 for the highest level
break
> and Uxx for other routines. Every programmer was trained in using
this method
> and it was strictly prohibited to write a new program without using
these
> structures.
> Even the position of the instructions was completely defined, for
example a
> MOVE statement should begin in position 21, the word TO in position
41 and
> the receiving field in position 46.
> Of course, there also existed a lot of programs that were written
before they
> invented these rules.
>
> I worked quite some time with a small group of programmers who only
had to
> solve the production problems and there I had to modify programs
written by a
> lot of different programmers and I learned a lot of things about
programming
> that they won't teach you anywhere.
>
> My conclusions.
>
> - If everybody uses the same abstract names in the procedures, it is
not too
> difficult to understand the program, but for somebody who doesn't
know the
> filosofy, it is very difficult to find out what the program is doing.
> - Even using this rigid structure, a lot of people are able to produce
> complicated, illogic, inefficient and impossible to maintain programs.
> - Some of the "old" programs, without any pre-defined structure are
much
> easier to understand and to maintain than the so-called structured
ones.
> - A bad programmer will write a bad program using these structures,
but
> without them the result will even be worse
> - A good programmer will write a good program anyway
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** "Willem Clements" <willem@horizontes-informatica.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
On Thu, 19 Oct 2000 18:22:51 GMT, shine98@my-deja.com wrote:

>What I like about standards is that there are so many to choose from :)
>
ŌĆ”[22 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>

Why don't you use the INDEXED BY clause to define an index for a table? It
increases performance, and the index field can only be used on its own table,
so it's not very likely it will be misused

Just my opinion
Willem Clements
Brainbench MVP for COBOL II
http://www.brainbench.com
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39EF4495.2133AB7F@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>`

```
Willem Clements wrote:
> 
> Why don't you use the INDEXED BY clause to define an index for a table? It
> increases performance, and the index field can only be used on its own table,
> so it's not very likely it will be misused

I don't believe the performance advantage is so great these days.  My
preference is for subscripts, as they are easier to display and
calculate.

Also

SET MY-INDEX TO 1.
SET MY-INDEX DOWN BY 1.

Is soooo ugly!
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** shine98@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8snhq2$g9k$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>`

```
I rarely use subscripts, almost always use indexing,  the main thing I
was trying to say is that the name of the index or subscript is not
important.

~shine

In article
<jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>,
  "Willem Clements" <willem@horizontes-informatica.com> wrote:
> On Thu, 19 Oct 2000 18:22:51 GMT, shine98@my-deja.com wrote:
>
> >What I like about standards is that there are so many to choose
from :)
> >
> >I'll agree with the food dude: subscripts don't need a descriptive
name
> >because the subscript or index just acts as a pointer to the nth
> >element of an array. a-table-item (a-table-item-index) is no more
clear
> >than a-table-item (ndx). the important thing is to know that the
index
> >or subscript will not be stepped on by another procedure in the
> >program. This is an area where local variables at the paragraph level
> >would really help. COBOL doesn't have them and C++ does. I'd love it
if
> >you could say:
> >
ŌĆ”[15 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> Why don't you use the INDEXED BY clause to define an index for a
table? It
> increases performance, and the index field can only be used on its
own table,
> so it's not very likely it will be misused
>
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** "William M. Klein" <wmklein@ix.netcom.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8snh01$q2t$1@slb6.atl.mindspring.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>`

```
FYI,
  The ANSI/ISO Standard "requires" that an index (from the indexed by
phrase) ONLY be used in the table for which it was defined.  However, most
(almost all?) compilers allow it to be used for ANY table of the same
"size".  This is certainly allowed by IBM, MERANT, Realia - and I think
several others.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "Chuck Stevens" <charles.stevens@unisys.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8snjd6$fo1$1@mail.pl.unisys.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8snh01$q2t$1@slb6.atl.mindspring.net>`

```

William M. Klein <wmklein@ix.netcom.com> wrote in message
news:8snh01$q2t$1@slb6.atl.mindspring.net...

<snip>

> However, most (almost all?) compilers allow it to be used for ANY table of
the same
> "size".  This is certainly allowed by IBM, MERANT, Realia - and I think
> several others.

None of the Unisys A Series COBOL compilers (COBOL(68), COBOL74 or COBOL85)
allow the use of an index against either a different table or a different
dimension of the same table.  An index may only be used as an index against
the table row of its declaration in those dialects.

    -Chuck Stevens
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "mangogwr" <mangogrower@telocity.co>
- **Date:** 2000-10-29T14:06:32-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<qD_K5.24874$Q8.5303656@newsrump.sjc.telocity.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8snh01$q2t$1@slb6.atl.mindspring.net> <8snjd6$fo1$1@mail.pl.unisys.com>`

```
IBM allows it:
5.3.10.3 INDEXED BY Phrase

The INDEXED BY phrase specifies the indexes that can be used with a table.
The INDEXED BY phrase is required if indexing is used to refer a this table
element.  See "Subscripting Using Index-Names (Indexing)" in  topic
1.5.1.8.2.

A table without an INDEXED BY option can be referred to through indexing.


1.5.1.8.2 Subscripting Using Index-Names (Indexing)

Indexing allows such operations as table searching and manipulating specific
items.  To use indexing you  associate one or more index-names with an item
whose data description entry contains an OCCURS clause.  An index associated
with an index-name acts as a subscript, and its value corresponds to an
occurrence number for the item to which the index-name is associated.

The INDEXED BY phrase, by which the index-name is identified and associated
with its table, is an optional  part of the OCCURS clause. There is no
separate entry to describe the index associated with index-name.  At run
time, the contents of the index corresponds to an occurrence number for that
specific dimension of the table with which the index is associated.

The initial value of an index at run time is undefined, and the index must
be initialized before it is used as a subscript.  An initial value is
assigned to an index with one of the following:

   The PERFORM statement with the VARYING phrase
   The SEARCH statement with the ALL phrase
   The SET statement

The use of an integer or data-name as a subscript referencing a table
element or an item within a table
element does not cause the alteration of any index associated with that
table.

As an IBM extension, an index-name can be used to reference any table.
However, the table element length of the table being referenced and of the
table that the index-name is associated with should match. Otherwise, the
reference will not be to the same table element in each table, and you might
get run-time  errors.


I have to agree with Thane, I personally and professionally dislike Dwight's
coding style.  You can
still have 'general purpose' copy routines (even if your compiler does NOT
support 'REPLACING'.

For instance :
UC-100-TO-UPPER
FIP-100-READ-MASTER-PRI-KEY
FOP-100-WRITE-MASTER-PRI-KEY
USB-100-SEARCH-TABLE-ALL

etc

BTW, Dwight, why have code all over the place to write a report, when you
can include
a WS Copy, and move variables (you have to do this part anyways),
set a value for Lines-Per-Page, Header-Lines, Data-Lines, Footer-Lines
and then call a 'ReportPGM'?

That's what I started doing after I wrote my 5th or 6th report program.  15
years later
when I encountered a report that needed more than 9 header / footer lines,

ALL
I had to do was add a table to convert A thru J to 10 thru 20, check whether
the input
header/footer-lines was numeric, if so, move it to a (change number 2) 2
byte header/
footer-lines, else look thru the table to match the letters, then move the
corresponding 2 byte
item to header/footer-lines.

All this used nice COBOL type names:  RPT-HEADER-LINES, RPT-DETAIL-LINES,
RPT-FOOTER-LINES, etc.




Chuck Stevens <charles.stevens@unisys.com> wrote in message
news:8snjd6$fo1$1@mail.pl.unisys.com...
>
> William M. Klein <wmklein@ix.netcom.com> wrote in message
ŌĆ”[4 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> > However, most (almost all?) compilers allow it to be used for ANY table
of
> the same
> > "size".  This is certainly allowed by IBM, MERANT, Realia - and I think
> > several others.
>
> None of the Unisys A Series COBOL compilers (COBOL(68), COBOL74 or
COBOL85)
> allow the use of an index against either a different table or a different
> dimension of the same table.  An index may only be used as an index
against
> the table row of its declaration in those dialects.
>
>     -Chuck Stevens
>
>
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** thaneH@softwaresimple.com (Thane Hubbell)
- **Date:** 2000-10-29T23:01:32+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39fcac32.15794591@207.126.101.100>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8snh01$q2t$1@slb6.atl.mindspring.net> <8snjd6$fo1$1@mail.pl.unisys.com> <qD_K5.24874$Q8.5303656@newsrump.sjc.telocity.net>`

```
I can't recall the code we are critiquing but it is NOT Dwight's.

On Sun, 29 Oct 2000 14:06:32 -0800, "mangogwr"
<mangogrower@telocity.co> wrote:

>IBM allows it:
>5.3.10.3 INDEXED BY Phrase
ŌĆ”[106 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>

---
Try a better search engine:  http://www.google.com
My personal web site: http://www.geocities.com/Eureka/2006/
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** Merlin43PhD@netscape.net (Dwight Scott Miller)
- **Date:** 2000-10-30T13:39:30+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<B31Jl8xr32q4-pn2-3w3IdFYMbdCD@bryantx.216-88-236-12.dd.alpha1.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8snh01$q2t$1@slb6.atl.mindspring.net> <8snjd6$fo1$1@mail.pl.unisys.com> <qD_K5.24874$Q8.5303656@newsrump.sjc.telocity.net> <39fcac32.15794591@207.126.101.100>`

```
On Sun, 29 Oct 3900 23:01:32, thaneH@softwaresimple.com (Thane Hubbell) 
wrote:

> I can't recall the code we are critiquing but it is NOT Dwight's.
> 

Thanks, Thane - I don't know this manga power fellow, but I'd be awfully
surprised if he had ever seen any of my code!  Of course, you could 
always email him a copy of MVRINV and then he could choke on me, Bill, 
Chris, you, and lord only know who else.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** "Jerry P" <jerryp@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<lcKH5.48$O96.63522@nnrp3.sbc.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es>`

```

"Willem Clements" <willem@horizontes-informatica.com

> Why don't you use the INDEXED BY clause to define an index for a
table? It
> increases performance, and the index field can only be used on its
own table,
> so it's not very likely it will be misused

I, personally, don't use INDEXED BY because it's not a versatile as a
subscript ...
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "Jeff Baynard" <union27@macconnect.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8so8s90g1f@enews1.newsguy.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <lcKH5.48$O96.63522@nnrp3.sbc.net>`

```
What about SEARCH ALL?  Can that be easily implemented with a subscript.  I
have written several programs where SEARCH ALL was the only way to go.  On
large amounts of data, a SEARCH ALL can make the difference between a 5
minute run time and un-runnable.

Jeff

----------
In article <lcKH5.48$O96.63522@nnrp3.sbc.net>, "Jerry P" <jerryp@bisusa.com>
wrote:


>
> "Willem Clements" <willem@horizontes-informatica.com
ŌĆ”[10 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "Jerry P" <jerryp@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-20T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<mW1I5.224$mU.47063@nnrp1.sbc.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2pdwk0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <lcKH5.48$O96.63522@nnrp3.sbc.net> <8so8s90g1f@enews1.newsguy.com>`

```
Well, yes. But except for SEARCH ALL, roads, sanitation, education,
trade, law & order, and general standard of living, what else can
indexing do for you?


"Jeff Baynard" <union27@macconnect.com> wrote in message
news:8so8s90g1f@enews1.newsguy.com...
> What about SEARCH ALL?  Can that be easily implemented with a
subscript.  I
> have written several programs where SEARCH ALL was the only way to
go.  On
> large amounts of data, a SEARCH ALL can make the difference between
a 5
> minute run time and un-runnable.
>
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> In article <lcKH5.48$O96.63522@nnrp3.sbc.net>, "Jerry P"
<jerryp@bisusa.com>
> wrote:
>
ŌĆ”[6 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> >> increases performance, and the index field can only be used on
its
> > own table,
> >> so it's not very likely it will be misused
> >
> > I, personally, don't use INDEXED BY because it's not a versatile
as a
> > subscript ...
> >
> >
>
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39EF43E5.A809B273@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```


shine98@my-deja.com wrote:
> 
> What I like about standards is that there are so many to choose from :)
ŌĆ”[22 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> paragraph name.

But we don't have that.

Because of this, I use the following:

01  BIB-IDX                 PIC S9(5)  BINARY.
01  BIB-OCCURS              PIC S9(5)  BINARY  VALUE 100.
01  BIB-MAX                 PIC S9(5)  BINARY  VALUE ZERO.
01  IABRCIB-TABLE.
    05  IABRCIB-RECORD OCCURS 100.
        ...

If a junior programmer steps on THAT index, it won't be my fault.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** shine98@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-20T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8spg8k$1ds$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39EF43E5.A809B273@brazee.net>`

```
I do something similar to this and I also compute the size of the table
so that the value in a variable doesn't have to be changed to
correspond with the value in the occurs clause when the table size
changes. I also would set the value of BIB-OCCURS to 0 and put a note
in ws so that the next programmer would know not to worry about
changing BIB-OCCURS. Seems to work real well.


 COMPUTE BIB-OCCURS =
     LENGTH OF IABRCIB-TABLE / LENGTH OF IABRCIB-RECORD (1)

~shine


In article <39EF43E5.A809B273@brazee.net>,
  Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net> wrote:
>
>
> shine98@my-deja.com wrote:
> >
> > What I like about standards is that there are so many to choose
from :)
> >
> > I'll agree with the food dude: subscripts don't need a descriptive
name
> > because the subscript or index just acts as a pointer to the nth
> > element of an array. a-table-item (a-table-item-index) is no more
clear
> > than a-table-item (ndx). the important thing is to know that the
index
> > or subscript will not be stepped on by another procedure in the
> > program. This is an area where local variables at the paragraph
level
> > would really help. COBOL doesn't have them and C++ does. I'd love
it if
> > you could say:
> >
ŌĆ”[26 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
>


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### Ōå│ Ōå│ Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-10-21T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39F14E08.D6015484@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <jvyyrzubevmbagrfvasbezngvpnpbz.g2p8wa0.pminews@news.wanadoo.es> <8sne5h$cpq$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39EF43E5.A809B273@brazee.net>`

```
Howard Brazee wrote:

> shine98@my-deja.com wrote:
> >
ŌĆ”[36 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> If a junior programmer steps on THAT index, it won't be my fault.

I thought about this and shine's idea was the first one I came up with.   I
then considered using search for first space with an at end condition.   No
maximum length values required.   I only did this at initialisation,  the
small overhead outweighed the risk of bad fixes later.   We use far to many
limitted internal tables due to the nature of our applications and the
growing data we are using.   We have a single customer with 5,000 mobile
phones for example,  they doubled due to sales push to 10,000 from one month
to the next.

I try to code out tables sometimes expediency is better than working out the
details.

Ken
```

#### Ōå│ Re: The Big Picture

- **From:** cbass2112@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-19T01:02:33+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8slh76$sv9$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8serl4$8cd$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
  Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
> Hi:
>
ŌĆ”[9 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> So, here is an explanation.

-- [Explanation snipped] --

Yes, your explanation is fine, and your goals are worthwhile, but,
frankly, I cannot believe that you consider the resulting code to be
something that is "very easy to read," and I cannot believe that you
really think "anyone can understand it."  In your own explanation, you
admit that your new hires "would be locked in their room until they
became very familiar with the whole thing" which suggests that it would
take diligent study to figure your code out.

My friend, that is *NOT* readability.

If you have to explicitly tell us that "S9912 is the routine which
upcases a string" and "FFP01A is the name of the customer file," you
have proven that your code fails the "readability" test.

> Subscripts, as mentioned, are named X1 thru X13. Calling
> them SUBSCRIPT-ONE wouldn't help a lot.

But calling them CURRENT-CUSTOMER and CURRENT-SALE-ITEM might.

> The X1 terminology was invented, I think for 1410 Autocoder.
> I liked it then and I like it now. Short, sweet, effective.
> Why change?

Perhaps because technology *HAS* changed?

-- snip --

> In accordance with my naming convention subroutines are performed
> thus: PERFORM S9908 THRU S9908X. S9908 is the name of the standard
> error routine. Everyone knows this, changing it to PERFORM
> STANDARD-ERROR-ROUTINE THRU STANDARD-ERROR-ROUTINE-EXIT wouldn't make
> it any better.

This is categorically incorrect, as you implicitly admitted when you
said, "They would be locked in their room until they became very
familiar with the whole thing."  This clearly illustrates that everyone
*doesn't* know that "S9908 is the name of the standard error routine"
until they *learn* that it is.  OTOH, if you simply *called* it
"STANDARD-ERROR" then that would be one thing less to learn, and your
code would become more readable:

          PERFORM STANDARD-ERROR.

> The standard print-area is called PA. To print, you
> move your stuff to PA and then PERFORM W1A, W2A, W3A, or WTOP
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> yes?

No. The former doesn't tell me what is going on, the latter does.  That
is what "readability" is all about.

> What I have which hardly anybody else has are two skeleton
> programs (File-Maintenance and Report).

How do you know what anybody else has or doesn't have? Claiming that
"hardly anybody else " has or uses skeletal code smacks of presumptuous
arrogance.  I have written, oh, probably three or four programs in my
entire career; the remaining several dozen where simply modifications to
one of the originals.

> Virtually any application can be built using just these two things.
> Before you light your flame-thrower, let me just say that I have used
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> National Shoes, American Insurance Association, IBM, etc.

So you have worked for several people. Welcome to the club. Again, do
you think you are alone here?

Also, this tells me that your spaghetti code has proliferated into
several companies; do you still maintain that code yourself? No? Then
some other poor schmuck has to deal with your gibberish, yes?

Who the hell cares if you wrote your gibberish in ten minutes flat when
it's three a.m. and your module ABENDed with a S0C4? Some other
programmer is going to have to deal with your legacy, and this is what
irritates me the most about people with your attitude.  You refuse to
understand that code should be written for maintenance programmers, not
your own ego.  The machine couldn't care less either way, so why not
make it understandable (rather than declare that it is when it clearly
isn't)?

> Because of the methodology, I was easily able to develop
> applications on my PC and then port them to a VAX system
> or anything else in no time flat.

Are you claiming that structured code couldn't be ported? Or
object-oriented code?

-- snip --

> If you look at the code out of context then you might
> say that it is not well-documented or easy to understand.

It *is* "not well-documented or easy to understand" regardless of
"context."  That you have to provide several paragraphs of "explanation"
clearly proves this.

> Look at it in context however, and it is pure and simple.
> Being familiar with the model, you just know that all user
ŌĆ”[6 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> pointless. Imagine the GO TO if long names were used.

Imagine not using GO TO at all. I dare you!

> In the future, if you needed to add new fields between
> K10 and K11, for example, the names would be K10A, K10B, etc.
ŌĆ”[22 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> 		*	*	*	*	*

You have real gonads to post this and claim it's something "anybody
could understand."  Especially considering that you felt the need to
include "(Corresponding to ESC, F1, F2, F3, F4, F5, F6, F7, F8)"

> Again, if you were to look at this code out of context,
> you could heap scorn upon it. (Of course, some people
> are going to heap scorn anyway, but they are the ones
> who don't get the Big Picture.)

Another flame-baiting statement; we get the "big picture" just fine, but
you seem to have trouble with the "bigger picture."  That bigger picture
is the question of who's going to maintain your code the day after you
get run over by a bus?

-- snip --

> This code will horrify people because it is upper-case,
> not structured, uses punctuation on every line, has
ŌĆ”[3 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> before continuing. . .

Several drinks won't help. Not thinking about it might.

> On the other hand, I see some advantages:
>
> 1. It is very easy to read.

I disagree. Strongly.

> 2. It is compact and contains no superfluous code as
>    would be found in a structured program.

What do you mean by "superflous" code?  Do you have any grasp of the
structured paradigm at all?

> 3. Within the context of the methodology it is easy to understand.
> 4. It is easier and faster to type.
> 5. It is highly portable.
> 6. Anyone can understand it.

This is directly contradicted by #3.

> 7. Because it is merely another Action in a larger program which
>    contained everything it needed, no data division entries were
ŌĆ”[5 more quoted lines elided]ŌĆ”
> 10. It is written quickly and efficiently.

At the cost of horribly inefficient maintenance.

-- snip --

> The objective must be to stop people from writing programs from
> scratch in their own style and to make them all the same, as they
> should be.

To a degree, I agree with this. You are mistaken, however, if you think
this can only be accomplished via spaghetti coding, or should be.

> If you are interested in seeing a program made using the methodology
> go to foodman123.com/tcs.htm.

I have looked at that code.  If you were working for me, I'd fire you.

I apologize for the heat from this post, but some things do get the
better of me.


Curtis


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

---

[ŌåÉ Index](../README.md) ┬Ę [Topics](../topics.md) ┬Ę [Years](../years.md) ┬Ę [Subjects](../subjects.md) ┬Ę [Authors](../authors.md)
