[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# How do I read and write bits?

_9 messages · 7 participants · 2002-12 → 2003-01_

**Topics:** [`Help requests and how-to`](../topics.md#help)

---

### How do I read and write bits?

- **From:** vibroplex@mindspring.com (Derek Cohn/WB0TUA)
- **Date:** 2002-12-30T13:52:35-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>`

```
Dear All,

This is my first post to this forum so please forgive me if I
misstep...

I am a COBOL programmer working on ALPHA platform running VMS.  I need
to read a data file and examine the various bits in a field such as a
signed word or longword.  I have looked in my COBOL manuals and can't
find a mechanism for reading and setting the value of a bit in a
field.  I'll need to loop over all bits in these fields and handle
them accordingly.

Can anyone point me to a mechanism that reads the individual bits in a
field and then sets them appropriately?

Please reply to the newsgroup if possible (not to my e-mail address)
so I can view posts at both my work and home.

Thank you for any help you can give me,

Derek
```

#### ↳ Re: How do I read and write bits?

- **From:** Colin Campbell <cmcampb@attglobal.net>
- **Date:** 2002-12-30T14:28:16-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3E10C880.D2C7ED09@attglobal.net>`
- **References:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>`

```
One method is the oldie but goodie of divide by two and examine the
remainder.


Derek Cohn/WB0TUA wrote:

> Dear All,
>
…[18 more quoted lines elided]…
> Derek
```

#### ↳ Re: How do I read and write bits?

- **From:** Binyamin Dissen <postingid@dissensoftware.com>
- **Date:** 2002-12-31T00:39:38+02:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<doi11v80u539pghlq5j84e33vpibfs3fin@4ax.com>`
- **References:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>`

```
On 30 Dec 2002 13:52:35 -0800 vibroplex@mindspring.com (Derek Cohn/WB0TUA)
wrote:

:>I am a COBOL programmer working on ALPHA platform running VMS.  I need
:>to read a data file and examine the various bits in a field such as a
:>signed word or longword.  I have looked in my COBOL manuals and can't
:>find a mechanism for reading and setting the value of a bit in a
:>field.  I'll need to loop over all bits in these fields and handle
:>them accordingly.

:>Can anyone point me to a mechanism that reads the individual bits in a
:>field and then sets them appropriately?

Treat it as a binary number.
```

#### ↳ Re: How do I read and write bits?

- **From:** "Richard Maher" <maher_rj@hotspamnotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2002-12-30T23:22:45+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<auqkg4$860$1@sparta.btinternet.com>`
- **References:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>`

```
Hi,

What you want to use is mth$jiand your_mask, integer giving result. if
result not = zeros . . .

The AND, OR and XOR routines are documented in the undocumented section of
the mth run-time library manual.

As someone else suggested, there is always subtract 2**n from integer giving
result. If result not less zero. . .

and dont forget hexidecimal literals x"ff" when setting protection masks for
a mailbox etc

Regards Richard Maher

PS. I'll try and post an example and don't forget comp.os.vms


Derek Cohn/WB0TUA <vibroplex@mindspring.com> wrote in message
news:d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com...
> Dear All,
>
…[18 more quoted lines elided]…
> Derek
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: How do I read and write bits?

- **From:** "Richard Maher" <maher_rj@hotspamnotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2002-12-30T23:42:30+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<auqll0$g5i$1@helle.btinternet.com>`
- **References:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com> <auqkg4$860$1@sparta.btinternet.com>`

```
Hi,

This will probably wrap really badly but FWIW look for mth$jiand

****************************************************************************
********
*
*
*         COPYRIGHT (c) 1994 BY TIER3 SOFTWARE LTD. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
*
*
*
*    THIS SOFTWARE IS FURNISHED UNDER A LICENSE AND MAY BE USED AND COPIED
ONLY    *
*    IN ACCORDANCE  WITH THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH LICENSE AND  WITH
THE    *
*    THE INCLUSION  OF THE ABOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICE.  THIS SOFTWARE  OR ANY
OTHER    *
*    COPIES  THEREOF MAY NOT  BE PROVIDED  OR OTHERWISE MADE AVAILABLE  TO
ANY    *
*    OTHER  PERSON.  NO  TITLE TO  AND OWNERSHIP  OF  THE  SOFTWARE  IS
HEREBY    *
*    TRANSFERRED.
*
*
*
*    THE INFORMATION  IN THIS SOFTWARE  IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE
AND    *
*    SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS A COMMITMENT BY TIER3 SOFTWARE LTD.
*
*
*
****************************************************************************
********
*+
* Routine Name: USER_INIT
*
* This routine is called by Tier3 as part of the execution server's
initialization
* procedures.
*
* In this routine you would normally open files or connect to any
database(s)
* required by your application. In the DEMO application no files or
databases are
* accessed directly, but an exit handler is declared to listen for an
abnormal
* termination.
*
* As a CLI has been loaded you are also free to spawn a sub-process via
LIB$SPAWN
* if that is a requirement of your application, and it should be noted that
there
* is no restriction on this execution server becoming a client of different
Tier3
* application(s) on other node(s).
*-
identification division.
program-id.    user_init.
data division.
working-storage section.
01  ss$_normal                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
01  sys_status                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
01  exit_desblk.
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp.
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
exit_handler.
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   1.
    03                                              pointer value
reference       exit_status.
01  exit_status                     pic s9(9)       comp.
*
01  demo_context.
    03  system_name                 pic x(8).
    03  buffer_size                 pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_user                pic x(12).
    03  timer_context               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  message_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  lostlnk_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  persona_context             pic 9(9)        comp.
*+
* DEBUG area. TIER3 sets the "language" to COBOL by default, so the
following
* debugger commands are included just to show how.
*-
\d01  ss$_debug                     pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_debug.
\d01  debug_commands.
\d    03  cmd_len                   pic x(1)                value   x"25".
\d    03                            pic x(37)               value   "set
language cobol; show process/full".
*
linkage section.
01  t3_system_name                  pic x(8).
01  t3_buffer_size                  pic 9(9)        comp.
procedure division using t3_system_name, t3_buffer_size giving sys_status.
00.
*+
* In this example, for the VMS debugger to be invoked at run-time then
* the /conditionals=d qualifier needs to be applied at compile-time.
*
* To assist a run-time decision as to whether or not to invoke debug
* TIER3 has defined a local DCL symbol T3$DEBUG. This symbol is set
* to the value specified by the system manager in the Tier3 Configuration
* file ie: "Y" or "N".
*-
\d      call "lib$signal"
\d              using   by value        ss$_debug, 1
\d                      by reference    debug_commands.
*+
* Record some startup information in the execution server's log file.
*-
    display "Initializing application " t3_system_name.
    display "Buffer size is           " t3_buffer_size with conversion.
*+
* These example routines are designed specifically to handle requests for
* the DEMO application only and require a buffer size of 510 bytes, but a
* single shareable image, or set of user action routines, could be designed
* to service the requests of multiple applications. Such routines could use
* the t3_system_name argument to determine the appropriate code path to
* execute at run-time. Similarly, by designing your user action routines to
* be able to cope with a variable buffer size you afford the system manager
* greater flexibility in tuning your application.
*
* We'll remember the Tier3 application parameters as they may come in handy.
*-
    move t3_system_name to system_name.
    move t3_buffer_size to buffer_size.
*+
* By passing the address of the data structure DEMO_CONTEXT as the context
* argument to the routine T3$SETCTX, the data is made available to all
* subsequent user routines by becoming the first argument in each call.
*-
    call "t3$setctx" using demo_context giving sys_status.
    if sys_status not = ss$_normal go to fini.
*+
* DEMO does not need any application specific cleanup but we'll check the
exit
* status anyway.
*-
    call "sys$dclexh" using exit_desblk giving sys_status.
*
fini.
    exit program.
*
end program user_init.
*+
* Routine Name: USER_LOGON
*
* This routine is called by Tier3 when a client request has been allocated
to
* the execution server for processing. From this point on an association is
said
* to exist between the client and execution server. The association is
terminated
* by specifying either the t3$m_close or the t3$m_disconnect modifier in a
call to
* the T3$SEND routine. The communication server may also cancel an
association at
* any time if the link to the client task is lost.
*
* Note: The output channel to the client will not be opened until the
USER_LOGON
*       routine has returned control to Tier3. Therefore any attempt to call
*       T3$SEND from this routine would result in the error T3$_CHANCLOSE
being
*       returned.
*-
identification division.
program-id.    user_logon.
data division.
working-storage section.
01  t3$k_decnet                     pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
t3$k_decnet.
01  t3$k_tcp_ip                     pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
t3$k_tcp_ip.
01  lib$_strtru                     pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
lib$_strtru.
01  ss$_normal                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
01  sys_status                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
*
01  persona_create_flags            pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
persona_create_flags.
01  persona_assume_flags            pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
persona_assume_flags.
*
01  remote_node_name                pic x(31).
01  remote_user_name                pic x(12).
01  remote_user_socket              redefines       remote_user_name.
    03  remote_host_addr.
        05  rha_1                   pic x.
        05  rha_2                   pic x.
        05  rha_3                   pic x.
        05  rha_4                   pic x.
    03  remote_port_num             pic 9(9)        comp.
*
01  tcpip_rem_user_len              pic 9(4)        comp.
01  tcpip_rem_user                  pic x(21).
*
linkage section.
01  demo_context.
    03  system_name                 pic x(8).
    03  buffer_size                 pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_user                pic x(12).
    03  timer_context               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  message_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  lostlnk_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  persona_context             pic 9(9)        comp.
*
01  transport_type                  pic 9(4)        comp.
*
01  remote_node_desc                pic x(8).
*
01  remote_user_desc                pic x(8).
*
01  local_user_desc.
    03  lud_class_len.
        05  lud_len                 pic 9(4)        comp.
        05  lud_class               pic 9(4)        comp.
    03  lud_addr                    pic 9(9)        comp.
*
procedure division using demo_context,
                         transport_type,
                         remote_node_desc,
                         remote_user_desc,
                         local_user_desc   giving  sys_status.
00.
*+
* Initialize the timers and counts for session statistics.
*-
    call "lib$init_timer" using timer_context giving sys_status.
    if sys_status not = ss$_normal go to fini.

    add 1 to session_count.
*+
* COBOL cannot receive arguments by descriptor transparenty so
* the Run-Time Library routine LIB$SCOPY_DXDX is used to copy
* the remote_node, remote_user and local_user arguments to fixed
* length strings in local working-storage.
*-
    call "lib$scopy_dxdx"
            using   by reference    remote_node_desc
                    by descriptor   remote_node_name
            giving sys_status.
    if sys_status not = ss$_normal and lib$_strtru go to fini.

    call "lib$scopy_dxdx"
            using   by reference    remote_user_desc
                    by descriptor   remote_user_name
            giving sys_status.
    if sys_status not = ss$_normal and lib$_strtru go to fini.
*+
* The return status lib$_strtru is treated as a serious error for
* the local username. ie 12 bytes is the maximum length for a VMS
* username.
*-
    call "lib$scopy_dxdx"
            using   by reference    local_user_desc
                    by descriptor   session_user
            giving sys_status.
    if sys_status not = ss$_normal go to fini.
*+
* Report the client association in the execution server's log file.
*-
    display "Association with ", session_user(1:lud_len), " established".
    display "Transport = " transport_type with conversion.
    display "Rem node  = " remote_node_name.
    display "Rem user  = " no advancing.

    evaluate    transport_type
        when    t3$k_decnet     display remote_user_name
        when    t3$k_tcp_ip     call "sys$fao"
                                        using   by descriptor
"!@UB.!@UB.!@UB.!@UB:!ZL"
                                                by reference
tcpip_rem_user_len
                                                by descriptor
tcpip_rem_user
                                                by reference    rha_1,
rha_2, rha_3, rha_4
                                                by value
remote_port_num
                                        giving  sys_status
                                if sys_status not = ss$_normal go to fini
end-if
                                display tcpip_rem_user(1:tcpip_rem_user_len)
    end-evaluate.
*+
* By assuming the persona of the VMS username that the remote client has
* been authorized to use on local node we have removed the need to perform
* additional security checking such as $check_access. IE: This server will
* be running with only those privileges and access rights that the client
* is entitled to assume. (Let VMS do all the work :-)
*
* NB: Again, this is only a suggestion and not a requirement of Tier3. If
*     you choose to use this extremely usefull VMS feature then the username
*     that the demo application will run under will need DETACH privilege
*     and read access to SYSUAF (Usually SYSPRV).
*-
    call "sys$persona_create"
        using   by reference    persona_context
                by descriptor   session_user(1:lud_len)
                by value        persona_create_flags
        giving  sys_status.
    if sys_status not = ss$_normal go to fini.

    call "sys$persona_assume"
        using   by reference    persona_context
                by value        persona_assume_flags
        giving  sys_status.
*
fini.
    exit program.
*
end program user_logon.
*+
* Routine: USER_RECV
*
* The USER_RECV routine is called by Tier3 for each message, or
* fragment of a message, that is received from a client with which
* the execution server is associated.
*
* In the DEMO example we are receiving one message per association
* with no fragmentation.
*
* If the status value T3$_CHANCLOSE is returned from the T3$SEND
* routine it is assumed that the link to the client has been lost
* so we simply return control to Tier3 after resetting our exist
* status to SS$_NORMAL to avoid server crash.
*
* NB:   If you application incorporates User Written System Services
*       do NOT use any executive mode dispatching codes in the range
*       -3000 to -2900 as these codes are reserved to Tier3.
*-
identification division.
program-id.    user_recv.
data division.
working-storage section.
01  t3$_chanclose                   pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
t3$_chanclose.
01  jbc$_nosuchent                  pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
jbc$_nosuchent.
01  jbc$_nomoreent                  pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
jbc$_nomoreent.
01  jbc$_normal                     pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
jbc$_normal.
01  ss$_abort                       pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_abort.
01  ss$_normal                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
01  sys_status                      pic s9(9)       comp.
*
01  t3$m_close                      pic 9(9)        comp    value   external
t3$m_close.
01  t3$m_now                        pic 9(9)        comp    value   external
t3$m_now.
01  t3$m_more                       pic 9(9)        comp    value   external
t3$m_more.
01  t3$m_oob                        pic 9(9)        comp    value   external
t3$m_oob.
01  qui$_display_entry              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$_display_entry.
01  qui$_cancel_operation           pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$_cancel_operation.
01  qui$m_search_wildcard           pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_search_wildcard.
*
01  sts_index                       pic s9(9)       comp.
01  on_or_off                       pic s9(9)       comp.
01  entry_count                     pic 9(9)        comp.
01  qui_iosb.
    03  qui_cond                    pic s9(9)       comp.
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp.
01  que_status_table.
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_available.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"AVAILABLE".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_busy.
    03                              pic x(10)               value   "BUSY".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_disabled.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"DISABLED".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_idle.
    03                              pic x(10)               value   "IDLE".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_paused.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"PAUSED".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_pausing.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"PAUSING".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_resuming.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"RESUMING".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_stalled.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"STALLED".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_starting.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"STARTING".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_stopped.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"STOPPED".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_stopping.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"STOPPING".
01  que_status_array                redefines que_status_table.
    03  que_status_item             occurs 11.
        05  que_value               pic s9(9)       comp.
        05  que_text                pic x(10).
01  que_flags_table.
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_printer.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"PRINTER".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_batch.
    03                              pic x(10)               value   "BATCH".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_generic.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"GENERIC".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_queue_terminal.
    03                              pic x(10)               value
"TERMINAL".
01  que_flags_array                 redefines que_flags_table.
    03  que_flags_item              occurs 4.
        05  flags_value             pic s9(9)       comp.
        05  flags_text              pic x(10).
01  job_status_table.
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_aborting.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"ABORTING".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_executing.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"EXECUTING".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_holding.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"HOLDING".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_inaccessible.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"INACCESSIBLE".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_pending.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"PENDING".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_refused.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"REFUSED".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_retained.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"RETAINED".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_stalled.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"STALLED".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_starting.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"STARTING".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_suspended.
    03                              pic x(15)               value
"SUSPENDED".
    03                              pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
qui$m_job_timed_release.
    03                              pic x(15)               value   "TIMED
RELEASE".
01  job_status_array                redefines job_status_table.
    03  job_status_item             occurs 11.
        05  job_value               pic s9(9)       comp.
        05  job_text                pic x(15).
*
01  item_list_addr                                  pointer.
*
01  entry_item_list.
    03  item_search_entry.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_search_number.
        05  pointer value reference search_number.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_queue_flags.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_queue_flags.
        05  pointer value reference que_flags.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_que_status.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_queue_status.
        05  pointer value reference que_status.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_job_status.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_job_status.
        05  pointer value reference job_status.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_que_name.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 31.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_queue_name.
        05  pointer value reference que_name.
        05  pointer value reference que_name_len.
    03  item_job_name.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 39.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_job_name.
        05  pointer value reference job_name.
        05  pointer value reference job_name_len.
    03  pic s9(9) comp.
*
01  wild_item_list.
    03  item_search_flags.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_search_flags.
        05  pointer value reference qui$m_search_wildcard.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_queue_flags.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_queue_flags.
        05  pointer value reference que_flags.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_job_entry.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_entry_number.
        05  pointer value reference job_entry.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_que_status.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_queue_status.
        05  pointer value reference que_status.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_job_status.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 4.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_job_status.
        05  pointer value reference job_status.
        05  pic s9(9) comp.
    03  item_que_name.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 31.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_queue_name.
        05  pointer value reference que_name.
        05  pointer value reference que_name_len.
    03  item_job_name.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value 39.
        05  pic s9(4) comp value external qui$_job_name.
        05  pointer value reference job_name.
        05  pointer value reference job_name_len.
    03  pic s9(9) comp.
*
01  search_number                   pic s9(9)       comp.
01  que_name                        pic x(31).
01  que_name_len                    pic 9(4)        comp.
01  que_status                      pic s9(9)       comp.
01  que_flags                       pic s9(9)       comp.
01  job_name                        pic x(39).
01  job_name_len                    pic 9(4)        comp.
01  job_status                      pic s9(9)       comp.
01  job_entry                       pic s9(9)       comp.
*
01  local_flags                     pic 9(9)        comp.
01  show_entry_reply.
    03                              pic xx                  value   "11".
    03  se_entry_number             pic 9(4).
    03  se_job_name                 pic x(39).
    03  se_job_status               pic x(15).
    03  se_que_name                 pic x(31).
    03  se_que_type                 pic x(10).
    03  se_que_status               pic x(10).
01  show_entry_len                  pic 9(9)        comp    value   111.
01  error_msg.
    03                              pic xx                  value   "00".
    03  error_len                   pic 999.
    03  error_text                  pic x(505).
*
linkage section.
01  demo_context.
    03  system_name                 pic x(8).
    03  buffer_size                 pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_user                pic x(12).
    03  timer_context               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  message_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  lostlnk_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  persona_context             pic 9(9)        comp.
*
01  msg_buff.
    03  msg_type                    pic xx.
        88  show_entry                                      value   "10".
    03                              pic x(508).
01  show_entry_msg                                          redefines
msg_buff.
    03                              pic xx.
    03  show_entry_number           pic 9(4).
    03  show_entry_max              pic 9(4).
*
01  msg_size                        pic s9(9)       comp.
*
01  msg_flags                       pic s9(9)       comp.
*
procedure division
        using   demo_context,
                msg_buff,
                msg_size,
                msg_flags
                giving sys_status.
kick_off section.
00.
    add 1 to message_count.
*+
* If the client has sent a message that is greater than the buffer size
* for this application, then Tier3 will set the bit T3$V_MORE in the
* msg_flags argument. The remaining fragments of the message are not lost,
* and will be delivered to user_recv routine in subsequent invocations.
* This example does not contain all of the code necessary to properly
* handle fragmented messages. The following "IF" statement is included
* merely to illustrate how your routine would be notified of fragmentation.
*-
    call "mth$jiand" using msg_flags, t3$m_more giving local_flags.
    if local_flags not = zeros display "Fragmented message - More to come".
*+
* NOTE: All Tier3 parameters passed to your routines are maintained in
* user mode read-only storage. Any attempt to modify their contents will
* result in an access violation. Take a copy of any input parameter that
* needs to be modified to local working-storage.
*-
    move low-values to error_text.

    evaluate        true
            when    show_entry      if show_entry_number = zeros
                                            perform get_entry_wild
                                    else    perform get_entry_info
                                    end-if
            when    other           move ss$_abort to sys_status
    end-evaluate.

    exit program.
*
get_entry_wild section.
00.
    set item_list_addr to reference wild_item_list.

    perform get_que_info.

    if sys_status = jbc$_nosuchent
            perform send_error
    else    if sys_status = jbc$_normal
                    move zeros to entry_count
                    perform until sys_status not = jbc$_normal or
entry_count = show_entry_max
                            add 1 to entry_count
                            perform send_entry
                            if sys_status = ss$_normal
                                    perform get_que_info
                            end-if
                    end-perform
                    if sys_status = jbc$_normal or jbc$_nomoreent
                            call "t3$send"
                                    using   by reference    "99EOF"
                                            by value        5, t3$m_close
                                    giving  sys_status.
*+
* The maximum number of entries may have been reached before all $GETQUI
information
* had been retrieved for the wildcard search, or the association with the
client may
* have been terminated prematurely by the communication server, therefore we
must
* be sure to tell the job controller that we wish to terminate the wildcard
search.
*-
    if sys_status = ss$_normal or t3$_chanclose
            call "sys$getquiw"
                    using   by value 0, qui$_cancel_operation, 0, 0
                            by reference qui_iosb
                            by value 0, 0
                    giving  sys_status
            if sys_status = ss$_normal and qui_cond not = jbc$_normal
                    move qui_cond to sys_status.
*
get_entry_info section.
00.
    move show_entry_number to search_number, job_entry.
    set item_list_addr to reference entry_item_list.

    perform get_que_info.

    if sys_status = jbc$_nosuchent
            perform send_error
    else    if sys_status = jbc$_normal
                    perform send_entry
                    if sys_status = ss$_normal
                            call "t3$send"
                                    using   by reference    "99EOF"
                                            by value        5, t3$m_close
                                    giving  sys_status.
*
fini.
    if sys_status = t3$_chanclose move ss$_normal to sys_status.
*
send_error section.
00.
    move 13 to error_len.
    move "No such entry" to error_text (1:error_len).
    call "t3$send"
            using   by reference    error_msg
                    by value        buffer_size, t3$m_close
            giving  sys_status.
*
send_entry section.
00.
    move job_entry to se_entry_number.
    move job_name(1:job_name_len) to se_job_name.
    move que_name(1:que_name_len) to se_que_name.

    move zeros to sts_index, on_or_off.
    perform until sts_index = 11 or on_or_off not = zeros
            add 1 to sts_index
            call "mth$jiand" using job_status,
                                   job_value (sts_index)
                            giving on_or_off
    end-perform.
    if on_or_off = zeros
            move "UNKNOWN" to se_job_status
    else    move job_text (sts_index) to se_job_status
            move zeros to on_or_off.

    move zeros to sts_index.
    perform until sts_index = 11 or on_or_off not = zeros
            add 1 to sts_index
            call "mth$jiand" using  que_status,
                                    que_value (sts_index)
                            giving  on_or_off
    end-perform.
    if on_or_off = zeros
            move "UNKNOWN" to se_que_status
    else    move que_text (sts_index) to se_que_status
            move zeros to on_or_off.

    move zeros to sts_index.
    perform until sts_index = 4 or on_or_off not = zeros
            add 1 to sts_index
            call "mth$jiand" using  que_flags,
                                    flags_value (sts_index)
                            giving  on_or_off
    end-perform.
    if on_or_off = zeros
            move "UNKNOWN" to se_que_type
    else    move flags_text (sts_index) to se_que_type.

    call "t3$send"
            using   by reference    show_entry_reply
                    by value        show_entry_len, t3$m_now
            giving  sys_status.
*
get_que_info section.
00.
    call "sys$getquiw" using by value 0, qui$_display_entry, 0
item_list_addr
                             by reference qui_iosb
                             by value 0, 0
                    giving   sys_status.
    if sys_status = ss$_normal move qui_cond to sys_status.
*
end program user_recv.
*+
* Routine: USER_LOGOFF
*
* This routine is called when the association with the client has been
* terminated, either by the USER_RECV routine or the communication server,
* and the USER_RECV routine has returned control to Tier3.
*
* For the DEMO example we are logging resource usage by the client.
*-
identification division.
program-id.    user_logoff.
data division.
working-storage section.
01  ss$_normal                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
01  sys_status                      pic s9(9)       comp.
*
01  persona_assume_flags            pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
persona_assume_flags.
01  restore_persona                 pic 9(9)        comp    value   1.
*
linkage section.
01  demo_context.
    03  system_name                 pic x(8).
    03  buffer_size                 pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_user                pic x(12).
    03  timer_context               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  message_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  lostlnk_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  persona_context             pic 9(9)        comp.
*
procedure division using demo_context giving sys_status.
00.
    display "Session completed with user ", session_user.
    move spaces to session_user.

    call "sys$persona_assume"
        using   by reference    restore_persona
                by value        persona_assume_flags
        giving  sys_status.
    if sys_status not = ss$_normal go to fini.

    call "sys$persona_delete" using persona_context giving sys_status.
    if sys_status not = ss$_normal go to fini.
*+
* Display the user's session statistics.
*
* The Run-Time Library performance reporting routines have been used
* as a very simple example of obtaining information on server resource
* usage by a client. If this is a requirement of your application then
* you should consider obtaining more detailed information via the VMS
* system services $GETTIM and $GETJPI and accumulating totals for each
* user in a disk file. This disk file could be processed at a later
* date as part of charge-back accounting procedures.
*-
    call "lib$show_timer" using timer_context giving sys_status.
*
fini.
    exit program.
*
end program user_logoff.
*+
* Routine: USER_FINI
*
* This routine is called by Tier3 when the server has been culled from
* the execution server pool due to inactivity timeout.
*
* In the DEMO aplication there are no files to close or databases to
* disconnect from so the only image rundown activity performed here
* is the logging of server statistics.
*-
identification division.
program-id.    user_fini.
data division.
working-storage section.
01  ss$_normal                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
*
linkage section.
01  demo_context.
    03  system_name                 pic x(8).
    03  buffer_size                 pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_user                pic x(12).
    03  timer_context               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  message_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  lostlnk_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  persona_context             pic 9(9)        comp.
*
procedure division using demo_context giving ss$_normal.
00.
    display "Execution server shutting down".
    display "Number of associations formed: " session_count with conversion.
    display "Number of messages received  : " message_count with conversion.
    display "Number of client links broken: " lostlnk_count with conversion.
    exit program.
*
end program user_fini.
*+
* Routine: USER_INT
*
* The user interrupt routine differs from the five other user action
* routines invoked by Tier3, in that it is called from AST level.
*
* In this example we merely increment a count of the number associations
* that were terminated abnormally. This count will be reported at image
* exit.
*-
identification division.
program-id.    user_int.
data division.
working-storage section.
01  ss$_normal                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
01  link_lost                       pic x(1)                value   x"01".
*
linkage section.
01  demo_context.
    03  system_name                 pic x(8).
    03  buffer_size                 pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_user                pic x(12).
    03  timer_context               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  session_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  message_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  lostlnk_count               pic 9(9)        comp.
    03  persona_context             pic 9(9)        comp.
*
01  interrupt_msg                   pic x(16).
*
01  interrupt_type                  pic 9(9)        comp.
    88  system_msg                                          value   external
t3$k_system.
    88  user_msg                                            value   external
t3$k_user.
*
procedure division using    demo_context,
                            interrupt_msg,
                            interrupt_type
                  giving    ss$_normal.
00.
*+
* The client program in the DEMO example does not send interrupts,
* therefore the only interrupt that this routine needs to cater for
* is that of link disconnection notification sent by the communication
* server.
*
* The Interrupt_Type field with contain T3$K_SYSTEM indicating that
* the message is from the communication server and the first byte of
* the interrupt message will contain the value 1 indicating that it is
* a link disconnection message. Currently bytes 2 thru 16 are unused
* for Tier3 interrupts, and link disconnection notification is the only
* interrupt that is sent by Tier3.
*
* Note: The maximum message size for TCP/IP interrupt messages is 1 byte.
*       This is a network transport restriction and not a TIER3 restriction.
*-
    if (system_msg and interrupt_msg(1:1) = link_lost)
            add 1 to lostlnk_count
            display "Link to client has been lost".

    exit program.
*
end program user_int.
*+
* Routine: exit_handler.
*
* This routine is application specific and not required by Tier3.
*
* For the DEMO example there are no special cleanup procedures
* required but we'll interogate the exit status for error logging
* purposes.
*
* VMS won't let a new persona to survive after image exit so no
* special cleanup check is required.
*-
identification division.
program-id.    exit_handler.
data division.
working-storage section.
01  t3$_nocomsrv                    pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
t3$_nocomsrv.
01  ss$_normal                      pic s9(9)       comp    value   external
ss$_normal.
linkage section.
01  exit_status                     pic s9(9)       comp.
procedure division using exit_status.
00.
    display "In exit handler - " no advancing.
    evaluate        exit_status
            when    ss$_normal      display "Normal rundown. Everything is
OK"
            when    t3$_nocomsrv    display "Can't find Tier3 communication
server"
            when    other           if exit_status is failure
                                            display "This will bring down
the communication server"
                                    else    display "Problem, but another
server will take my place"
                                    end-if
    end-evaluate.

    exit program.
*
end program exit_handler.


Richard Maher <maher_rj@hotspamnotmail.com> wrote in message
news:auqkg4$860$1@sparta.btinternet.com...
> Hi,
>
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> As someone else suggested, there is always subtract 2**n from integer
giving
> result. If result not less zero. . .
>
> and dont forget hexidecimal literals x"ff" when setting protection masks
for
> a mailbox etc
>
…[29 more quoted lines elided]…
>
```

#### ↳ Re: How do I read and write bits?

- **From:** "WOB" <wobconsult@sprynet.com>
- **Date:** 2002-12-30T18:52:19-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<auqma0$kfu$1@slb5.atl.mindspring.net>`
- **References:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>`

```
Derek,

        If this helps, I can answer this in IBM speak using ASCII data.

        In IBM, a variable defined as 9(04) BINARY or COMP is considered to
be a binary-halfword, consisting of 2-bytes. A PIC 9(09) BINARY or COMP
field is considered to be a binary-fullword, consisting of 4-bytes.

        Because binary is binary, here's an example using a binary-fullword:

03  WS-FWORD PIC  9(09) BINARY.
03  WS-FWORD-X REDEFINES WS-FWORD
                              PIC  X(04).
03  WS-FIELD PIC  X(01) VALUE 'G'.
03  WS-BIT-MASK PIC X(08).
03  WS-SUB PIC  9(04) BINARY.

MOVE ZERO TO WS-FWORD.
MOVE WS-FIELD TO WS-FWORD-X (4:1).
MOVE ZERO TO WS-BIT-MASK.

PERFORM VARYING WS-SUB FROM 1 BY 1
           UNTIL WS-SUB > LENGTH OF WS-BIT-MASK
                    IF  WS-HWORD-X (2:1) > X'7F'
                         MOVE '1' TO WS-BIT-MASK (WS-SUB:1)
                    END-IF
                    ADD WS-FWORD TO WS-FWORD
                    MOVE LOW-VALUE TO WS-FWORD-X (3:1)
END-PERFORM.

When the loop completes, WS-BIT-MASK will equal '01000111', which represents
the value of an ASCII  'G' (X'47', B'01000111') as an 8-byte value.

Using the just-created value in WS-BIT-MASK, convert back to a single byte
value:

03  WS-BIT-TBL-REC.
      05  WS-BIT-TBL OCCURS 8 TIMES
                                    INDEXED BY X-WS-BT
                                    PIC  9(04) BINARY.

MOVE X'00800040002000100008000400020001'
                                    TO WS-BIT-TBL-REC.
MOVE ZERO TO WS-FWORD.

PERFORM VARYING X-WS-BT FROM 1 BY 1
        UNTIL X-WS-BT > 8
                IF  WS-BIT-MASK (WS-SUB:1) = '1'
                     ADD WS-BIT-TBL (X-WS-BT) TO WS-FWORD
                END-IF
END-PERFORM.

Once this loop is complete, WS-FWORD-X (4:1) will equal X'47' (B'01000111'),
which is an ASCII 'G'.

In the IBM Language Environment world, there's a Callable Service routine
that can test "bits" and is named "CEESITST". Sometimes in IBM, these
routines have a COBOL "FUNCTION" (not exact) counterpart, but I don't
believe there's a FUNCTION for this routine.

HTH....

Bill

"Derek Cohn/WB0TUA" <vibroplex@mindspring.com> wrote in message
news:d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com...
> Dear All,
>
…[18 more quoted lines elided]…
> Derek
```

#### ↳ Re: How do I read and write bits (2)

- **From:** "WOB" <wobconsult@sprynet.com>
- **Date:** 2002-12-30T18:59:33-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<auqmed$c5k$1@slb4.atl.mindspring.net>`
- **References:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>`

```
Oops, in my previous post :

PERFORM VARYING X-WS-BT FROM 1 BY 1
        UNTIL X-WS-BT > 8
                IF  WS-BIT-MASK (WS-SUB:1) = '1'
                     ADD WS-BIT-TBL (X-WS-BT) TO WS-FWORD
                END-IF
END-PERFORM.

It needs to read like this, setting WS-SUB to X-WS-BT within the in-line
PERFORM:

PERFORM VARYING X-WS-BT FROM 1 BY 1
        UNTIL X-WS-BT > 8
                SET WS-SUB TO X-WS-BT
                IF  WS-BIT-MASK (WS-SUB:1) = '1'
                     ADD WS-BIT-TBL (X-WS-BT) TO WS-FWORD
                END-IF
END-PERFORM.

Thanks,

Bill
```

#### ↳ Re: How do I read and write bits?

- **From:** "Michael Mattias" <michael.mattias@gte.net>
- **Date:** 2002-12-31T00:06:33+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<cc5Q9.4285$qU5.3266582@newssrv26.news.prodigy.com>`
- **References:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>`

```
"Derek Cohn/WB0TUA" <vibroplex@mindspring.com> wrote in message
news:d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com...
>
> Can anyone point me to a mechanism that reads the individual bits in a
> field and then sets them appropriately?

Please note code courtesy Judson McClendon..which I have saved for "a little
while.."

MCM

From: Judson McClendon
Subject: Re: Checking Bits
Date: Saturday, April 10, 1999 1:18 PM

Joe Hans wrote:
>Does anyone know how to test the value of the bits of an alphanumeric
>field?
>
>I have a PIC X, and need to find out which bits are on (i.e. set to
>1).  So I want to return 8 answers.  Any ideas?


       01  BIT-WORK.
           03  BW-BYTE         PIC X(01)      VALUE SPACE.
           03  BW-ORD          PIC 9(04) COMP VALUE 0.
           03  BW-BITS.
               05  BW-BIT128   PIC  9(01).
               05  BW-BIT64    PIC  9(01).
               05  BW-BIT32    PIC  9(01).
               05  BW-BIT16    PIC  9(01).
               05  BW-BIT8     PIC  9(01).
               05  BW-BIT4     PIC  9(01).
               05  BW-BIT2     PIC  9(01).
               05  BW-BIT1     PIC  9(01).
           03  BW-BIT          REDEFINES BW-BITS
                               OCCURS 8 TIMES
                               INDEXED BY BW-X
                                   PIC  9(01).

       SPLIT-BYTE-INTO-BITS.
           COMPUTE BW-ORD = FUNCTION ORD(BW-BYTE) - 1.
           PERFORM VARYING BW-X FROM 8 BY -1 UNTIL BW-X < 1
               DIVIDE 2 INTO BW-ORD
                   GIVING BW-ORD REMAINDER BW-BIT(BW-X)
           END-PERFORM.

       MERGE-BITS-INTO-BYTE.
           MOVE 0 TO BW-ORD.
           PERFORM VARYING BW-X FROM 1 BY 1 UNTIL BW-X > 8
               COMPUTE BW-ORD = BW-ORD + BW-ORD + BW-BIT(BW-X)
           END-PERFORM.
           MOVE FUNCTION CHAR(BW-ORD + 1) TO BW-BYTE.
```

#### ↳ Re: How do I read and write bits?

- **From:** jacksleight@hotmail.com (Jack Sleight)
- **Date:** 2003-01-09T11:54:44-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8a2d426e.0301091154.644cb967@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>`

```
Interesting problem. Here's 2 possible approaches for your
consideration:

The first will "flip" one specific bit in a specified byte. The other
will scan 8 bytes of data and determine the "on/off" status of each
bit in the string. In the code supplied here I've "flipped" each bit
in the string. The routine can be used to selectively "flip" the bits,
or, if the string represents an option list or some such, it can be
used to process the options.

Because the code hasn't been tested, the usual caveats and copouts
apply. I don't know how this will "wrap", but here goes.....

FLIPONE.....


01  WS-WORK-AREAS.
    05  BIT-NBR                 PIC  9(04) COMP.
    05  BIT-FLIPPER             PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE 0.

    05  FLD-1.
        10  1ST-CHK-BYTE        PIC  X(01).
            88  CHK-BIT-IS-ON   VALUE X'80' THRU X'FF'.
            88  CHK-BIT-IS-OFF  VALUE X'00' THRU X'7F'.
        10  FILLER              PIC  X(01).
    05  CHK-BITS                REDEFINES
        FLD-1                   PIC  9(04) COMP.

    05  CHG-BITS                PIC  9(04) COMP.

    05  BIT-SHIFT-VALUES.
        10  BIT-1               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE   1.
        10  BIT-2               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE   2.
        10  BIT-3               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE   4.
        10  BIT-4               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE   8.
        10  BIT-5               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE  16.
        10  BIT-6               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE  32.
        10  BIT-7               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE  64.
        10  BIT-8               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE 128.
    05  BIT-SHIFT-TBL           REDEFINES
        BIT-SHIFT-VALUES.
        10  SHIFT-ENT           PIC  9(04) COMP
                                OCCURS 8.


    MOVE     your data  TO CHK-BITS(1:1)
                           CHG-BITS(1:1)
    MOVE     bit nbr    TO BIT-NBR
    MOVE     ZEROS      TO BIT-FLIPPER
    MOVE     X'80'      TO BIT-FLIPPER(1:1)
    COMPUTE  CHK-BITS    = CHK-BITS    * SHIFT-ENT(BIT-NBR)
    COMPUTE  BIT-FLIPPER = BIT-FLIPPER / SHIFT-ENT(BIT-NBR)

    EVALUATE TRUE
    WHEN CHK-BIT-IS-ON
         SUBTRACT BIT-FLIPPER FROM CHG-BITS
    WHEN CHK-BIT-IS-OFF
         ADD BIT-FLIPPER        TO CHG-BITS
    WHEN OTHER
         DISPLAY 'HOUSTON WE HAVE A PROBLEM'
         STOP RUN
    MOVE CHG-BITS(1:1)  TO your receiving area
    .

FLIPALL.....


01  WS-WORK-AREAS.
    05  FLD-1.
        10  1ST-CHK-BYTE        PIC  X(01).
            88  CHK-BIT-IS-ON   VALUE X'80' THRU X'FF'.
            88  CHK-BIT-IS-OFF  VALUE X'00' THRU X'7F'.
        10  FILLER              PIC  X(07).
    05  CHK-BITS-64             REDEFINES
        FLD-1                   PIC  9(10) COMP.

    05  CHG-BITS-64             PIC  9(10) COMP.
    05  BIT-FLIPPER             PIC  9(10) COMP VALUE ZEROS.
    05  LOOP-CNTL               PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE ZEROS.
    05  BIT-LOC                 PIC  9(04) COMP VALUE ZEROS.
        88  ONE-BIT             VALUE 1 THRU 8.
        88  BIT-STRING          VALUE 0.
        88  ERROR               VALUE 9 THRU 65535.



    MOVE     your data    TO CHK-BITS-64(1:nbr of bytes)
                             CHG-BITS-64(1:nbr of bytes)
    MOVE     nbr of bits  TO LOOP-CNTL
    MOVE     ZEROS        TO BIT-FLIPPER
    MOVE     X'80'        TO BIT-FLIPPER(1:1)

    PERFORM  XXXX-CHK-A-BIT  LOOP-CNTL TIMES
    MOVE CHG-BITS-64(1:nbr of bytes)
      TO your receiving area
    .
XXXX-CHK-A-BIT.
    EVALUATE TRUE
    WHEN CHK-BIT-IS-ON
         SUBTRACT BIT-FLIPPER FROM CHG-BITS-64
    WHEN CHK-BIT-IS-OFF
         ADD BIT-FLIPPER        TO CHG-BITS-64
    WHEN OTHER
         DISPLAY 'HOUSTON WE HAVE A PROBLEM'
         STOP RUN
    END-EVALUATE
    COMPUTE  CHK-BITS-64 = CHK-BITS-64          * 2
    COMPUTE  BIT-FLIPPER = BIT-FLIPPER          / 2
    .








vibroplex@mindspring.com (Derek Cohn/WB0TUA) wrote in message news:<d7d0c297.0212301352.43889aaa@posting.google.com>...
> Dear All,
> 
…[18 more quoted lines elided]…
> Derek
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
