[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# Insertion Sort

_5 messages · 5 participants · 1996-12_

**Topics:** [`VSAM, files, sorting`](../topics.md#files)

---

### Insertion Sort

- **From:** "st..." <ua-author-17086329@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1996-12-15T19:00:01+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`

```

Hi there

Does anyone have any samples of the Insertion Sort method in COBOL?
I've been looking through reference books, but to no avail.

Many thanks
Steven Richmond
```

#### ↳ Re: Insertion Sort

- **From:** "lsv..." <ua-author-13441627@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1996-12-16T19:00:02+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-535cc2801f-p2@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`
- **References:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`

```

In <32b··.@new··t.com>, st··.@hol··k.org (Steven Richmond) writes:
› Hi there
› 
…[11 more quoted lines elided]…
› =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Steve, here is some sorting algorithms. You can find insertion sort
as part of quicksort (used to sort the almost sorted array near the end
of quicksort). But, why use insertion sort? I would recommend
combsort.

Leif Svalgaard


D. Sorting Algorithms


Sorting is one of the fundamental devices in information
processing. It is also one of the most subtle and least
understood. The difference between a good and a mediocre
sorting algorithm is hard to see when dealing with small
amounts of data. However, with large amounts, the
difference is so massive that it can totally destroy the
effectiveness of a program.

To see why this difference is so important, look at the
way that sorting works. We compare the data items with each
other, and re-arrange them in order. Simply comparing two
values takes a certain amount of time. Moving data around
takes significantly longer. The best sorting algorithm does
as few compares and moves as possible.

In the worst algorithm (simple bubble sort), each data
item is compared to the remaining unsorted items, so that
the maximum number of comparisons needed for n items is n(n-
1). For ten items, this means around 100 comparisons. For
1000 items, 1,000,000 comparisons. At ten thousand items,
the system is no longer responding. The fastest sorting
methods approach kn(log2n) comparisons, where k is a small
constant depending on the method. If k is 2, this means 46
comparisons for 10 items, 14 thousand comparisons for 1000
items, and 28 million comparisons for 1 million items.

As well as reducing the number of comparisons, good
sorting algorithms try to reduce the number of moves.
Typically, the data part of an item is much larger than the
key part, so moving data around is significantly slower then
comparing. A useful way to reduce the costs of moving data
is to use indirect tables (see page (?)).

Note that the code required to implement a really
efficient quicksort is large and complex compared to bubble
sort. The sort algorithm you use depends on the amount and
type of data you may need to sort.

In all examples of code below, we assume that the data
being sorted is defined as follows:

01 TABLE-TO-SORT.
02 TABLE-SIZE PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 TABLE-MAX PIC S9(5) COMP VALUE +1600.
02 TABLE-ITEM OCCURS 1600 TIMES
03 TABLE-KEY PIC X(9).
03 TABLE-DATA PIC X(11).

The size of the key and data simply reflect the data used
in the test programs. The table size, 1600 items, makes the
table 32000 bytes large. COBOL does not allow tables
greater than 32767 bytes (except as a non-portable extension
on some systems). A useful device for working with larger
tables (memory permitting) is to split the table:

01 LARGE-TABLE-ITEM1.
02 TABLE-KEY PIC X(9) OCCURS 2900 TIMES.

01 LARGE-TABLE-ITEM2.
02 TABLE-DATA PIC X(11) OCCURS 2900 TIMES.

1. Bubble Sort

As the name suggests, bubble sort moves items up a table
like bubbles in a tube. The algorithm can be explained as
follows: pass over the data, comparing and exchanging items
so that the largest item ends up at the end of the table.
Repeat for the remaining items until the table is sorted,
that is, no exchanges were made during the latest pass.

The following code does a bubble sort:

01 VARIOUS-INDICES.
02 ITEM-NBR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 SWAP-NBR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 JUMP-SIZE PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 UPPER-LIMIT PIC S9(5) COMP.

01 VARIOUS-VALUES.
02 SWAP-ITEM PIC X(20).
02 SWAP-INDICATOR PIC X(1).
88 NO-MORE-SWAPS VALUE IS SPACE.

BUBBLE-SORT-THE-ARRAY.
MOVE "SWAP" TO SWAP-INDICATOR
MOVE 1 TO JUMP-SIZE
PERFORM BUBBLE-SORT
UNTIL NO-MORE-SWAPS
.

BUBBLE-SORT.
MOVE SPACE TO SWAP-INDICATOR
COMPUTE UPPER-LIMIT = TABLE-SIZE - JUMP-SIZE

PERFORM COMPARE-AND-SWAP-KEYS
VARYING ITEM-NBR FROM 1 BY 1
UNTIL ITEM-NBR > UPPER-LIMIT
.

COMPARE-AND-SWAP-KEYS.
COMPUTE SWAP-NBR = ITEM-NBR + JUMP-SIZE
IF TABLE-KEY (ITEM-NBR) > TABLE-KEY (SWAP-NBR)
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (ITEM-NBR) TO SWAP-ITEM
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (SWAP-NBR) TO TABLE-ITEM (ITEM-NBR)
MOVE SWAP-ITEM TO TABLE-ITEM (SWAP-NBR)
MOVE "SWAP" TO SWAP-INDICATOR
.

2. Heapsort

Heapsort uses an intermediate structure, a heap, which is
rather like a binary tree, with each son less than or equal
to its father. Once the data is partially ordered into a
heap, it can be sorted very quickly. The heap is built up
within the actual table being sorted, so does not need any
extra storage. The detailed workings of heapsort are quite
complex, though very efficient, and the reader is referred
to Wirth[10].

The advantage of heapsort over bubble sort is simply that
it is a lot faster for large amounts of data; 2n(log2n)
comparisons are needed on average. Additionally, heapsort
is quite compact compared to the quicksort algorithm
presented later:

01 VARIOUS-INDICES.
02 ITEM-NBR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 COPY-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 LEFT-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 RIGHT-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 TO-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 FROM-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.

01 VARIOUS-VALUES.
02 EXCHANGE-ITEM.
03 EXCHANGE-KEY PIC X(9).
03 EXCHANGE-DATA PIC X(11).

HEAP-SORT-THE-TABLE.
COMPUTE LEFT-PTR = TABLE-SIZE / 2 + 1
COMPUTE RIGHT-PTR = TABLE-SIZE

PERFORM SIFT-THE-HEAP-BY-LEFT
UNTIL LEFT-PTR < 2

PERFORM SIFT-THE-HEAP-BY-RIGHT
UNTIL RIGHT-PTR < 2
.

SIFT-THE-HEAP-BY-LEFT.
SUBTRACT 1 FROM LEFT-PTR
PERFORM SIFT-THE-HEAP
.

SIFT-THE-HEAP.
COMPUTE TO-PTR = LEFT-PTR
COMPUTE FROM-PTR = LEFT-PTR + LEFT-PTR
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (TO-PTR) TO EXCHANGE-ITEM
PERFORM BUILD-ITEMS-INTO-HEAP
UNTIL FROM-PTR > RIGHT-PTR

MOVE EXCHANGE-ITEM TO TABLE-ITEM (TO-PTR)
.

BUILD-ITEMS-INTO-HEAP.
IF FROM-PTR < RIGHT-PTR
COMPUTE COPY-PTR = FROM-PTR + 1
IF TABLE-KEY (FROM-PTR) < TABLE-KEY (COPY-PTR)
MOVE COPY-PTR TO FROM-PTR
.
IF EXCHANGE-KEY NOT < TABLE-KEY (FROM-PTR)
COMPUTE FROM-PTR = RIGHT-PTR + 1
ELSE
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (FROM-PTR) TO TABLE-ITEM (TO-PTR)
MOVE FROM-PTR TO TO-PTR
COMPUTE FROM-PTR = TO-PTR + TO-PTR
.

SIFT-THE-HEAP-BY-RIGHT.
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (1) TO EXCHANGE-ITEM
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (RIGHT-PTR) TO TABLE-ITEM (1)
MOVE EXCHANGE-ITEM TO TABLE-ITEM (RIGHT-PTR)
SUBTRACT 1 FROM RIGHT-PTR
PERFORM SIFT-THE-HEAP
.

3. Quicksort

Sorting is a problem which has been solved. The fastest
sort algorithm is quicksort. If you ever need to sort
significant amounts of data, use this method. There are
some notable aspects of quicksort that you should be aware
of, even if the detailed mechanism is not important:

+ Quicksort is a recursive procedure. This is easiest
to implement in a language such as Pascal or C, but
quite possible in COBOL, as we shall see.

+ Quicksort is unstable. This means that two records
with the same key may not end up in the same order
after sorting. Bubble sort and heapsort are, in
contrast, stable. You can add stability by
extending the key to include a sequence number, so
that there are in fact no duplicate keys.

+ Quicksort performs badly once the amounts of data
become small due to the overhead of recursion. This
can be avoided by using a secondary sort when the
partition size is less than some magic figure.

+ Quicksort performs badly with certain types of data;
this can be improved by judicious choice of a pivot
point at each sort, f. ex. the middle point.

The following highly-optimised implementation is a good
example of pseudo-recursive programming in COBOL. It uses
an insertion sort to handle small partitions:

01 SORT-HANDLING.
02 CUR-LOWER-LIMIT PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 CUR-UPPER-LIMIT PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 PARTITION-SIZE PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 MINIMUM-PARTITION PIC S9(5) COMP VALUE +13.
02 LOWER-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 MIDDLE-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 UPPER-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 PREV-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.

02 STACK-TOP PIC S9(5) COMP VALUE +20.
02 STACK-PTR PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 STACK-NXT PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 QUICKSORT-STACK OCCURS 20.
03 LOWER-LIMIT PIC S9(5) COMP.
03 UPPER-LIMIT PIC S9(5) COMP.

02 PIV-ITEM.
03 PIV-KEY PIC X(9).
03 PIV-DATA PIC X(11).
02 COMP-ITEM.
03 COMP-KEY PIC X(9).
03 COMP-DATA PIC X(11).

02 EXCHG-ITEM PIC X(20).

02 COMPARE-RESULT PIC X.
88 COMPARE-GREATER-THAN VALUE "G".
88 COMPARE-LESS-THAN VALUE "L".

QUICKSORT-THE-TABLE.
MOVE 1 TO STACK-PTR, LOWER-LIMIT (STACK-PTR)
MOVE TABLE-SIZE TO UPPER-LIMIT (STACK-PTR)

PERFORM QUICKSORT-THE-ENTRIES
UNTIL STACK-PTR = ZERO

PERFORM INSERTION-SORT
VARYING UPPER-PTR FROM 2 BY 1
UNTIL UPPER-PTR > TABLE-SIZE
.

QUICKSORT-THE-ENTRIES.
MOVE LOWER-LIMIT (STACK-PTR) TO CUR-LOWER-LIMIT
MOVE UPPER-LIMIT (STACK-PTR) TO CUR-UPPER-LIMIT
IF CUR-LOWER-LIMIT < CUR-UPPER-LIMIT
MOVE CUR-LOWER-LIMIT TO LOWER-PTR
MOVE CUR-UPPER-LIMIT TO UPPER-PTR

COMPUTE PARTITION-SIZE = UPPER-PTR - LOWER-PTR + 1
IF PARTITION-SIZE > MINIMUM-PARTITION
MOVE CUR-LOWER-LIMIT TO LOWER-PTR
MOVE CUR-UPPER-LIMIT TO UPPER-PTR

PERFORM FIND-A-PIVOT-ENTRY
PERFORM PARTITION-ENTRIES
UNTIL UPPER-PTR < LOWER-PTR

PERFORM QUICKSORT-THE-PARTITIONS
PERFORM INCREASE-AND-CHECK-STACK-PTR
ELSE
SUBTRACT 1 FROM STACK-PTR
ELSE
SUBTRACT 1 FROM STACK-PTR
.

INCREASE-AND-CHECK-STACK-PTR.
IF STACK-PTR < STACK-TOP
ADD 1 TO STACK-PTR
ELSE
MOVE ZERO TO STACK-PTR
.

FIND-A-PIVOT-ENTRY.
COMPUTE MIDDLE-PTR = (LOWER-PTR + UPPER-PTR) / 2
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (MIDDLE-PTR) TO PIV-ITEM
.

PARTITION-ENTRIES.
MOVE "LT" TO COMPARE-RESULT
PERFORM INCREASE-LOWER
UNTIL COMPARE-GREATER-THAN

MOVE "GT" TO COMPARE-RESULT
PERFORM DECREASE-UPPER
UNTIL COMPARE-LESS-THAN

IF LOWER-PTR NOT > UPPER-PTR
PERFORM EXCHANGE-UPPER-AND-LOWER
ADD 1 TO LOWER-PTR
SUBTRACT 1 FROM UPPER-PTR
.

INCREASE-LOWER.
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (LOWER-PTR) TO COMP-ITEM
IF COMP-KEY < PIV-KEY
ADD 1 TO LOWER-PTR
ELSE
MOVE "GT" TO COMPARE-RESULT
.

DECREASE-UPPER.
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (UPPER-PTR) TO COMP-ITEM
IF COMP-KEY > PIV-KEY
SUBTRACT 1 FROM UPPER-PTR
ELSE
MOVE "LT" TO COMPARE-RESULT
.

EXCHANGE-UPPER-AND-LOWER.
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (LOWER-PTR) TO EXCHG-ITEM
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (UPPER-PTR) TO TABLE-ITEM (LOWER-PTR)
MOVE EXCHG-ITEM TO TABLE-ITEM (UPPER-PTR)
.

QUICKSORT-THE-PARTITIONS.
COMPUTE STACK-NXT = STACK-PTR + 1
IF UPPER-PTR - CUR-LOWER-LIMIT < CUR-UPPER-LIMIT - LOWER-PTR
MOVE CUR-LOWER-LIMIT TO LOWER-LIMIT (STACK-NXT)
MOVE UPPER-PTR TO UPPER-LIMIT (STACK-NXT)

MOVE LOWER-PTR TO LOWER-LIMIT (STACK-PTR)
MOVE CUR-UPPER-LIMIT TO UPPER-LIMIT (STACK-PTR)
ELSE
MOVE LOWER-PTR TO LOWER-LIMIT (STACK-NXT)
MOVE CUR-UPPER-LIMIT TO UPPER-LIMIT (STACK-NXT)

MOVE CUR-LOWER-LIMIT TO LOWER-LIMIT (STACK-PTR)
MOVE UPPER-PTR TO UPPER-LIMIT (STACK-PTR)
.

INSERTION-SORT.
MOVE "GT" TO COMPARE-RESULT
PERFORM INSERT-IN-PLACE
VARYING LOWER-PTR FROM UPPER-PTR BY -1
UNTIL NOT COMPARE-GREATER-THAN
.

INSERT-IN-PLACE.
COMPUTE PREV-PTR = LOWER-PTR - 1
IF PREV-PTR < 1
MOVE "LT" TO COMPARE-RESULT
ELSE
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (PREV-PTR) TO COMP-ITEM
MOVE TABLE-ITEM (LOWER-PTR) TO PIV-ITEM
IF COMP-KEY > PIV-KEY
MOVE PIV-ITEM TO TABLE-ITEM (PREV-PTR)
MOVE COMP-ITEM TO TABLE-ITEM (LOWER-PTR)
ELSE
MOVE "LT" TO COMPARE-RESULT
.

4. Combsort

Just as we thought that the last word had been said about
sorting, a breakthrough comes along and spoils everything.
In the April 1991 issue of BYTE magazine, Stephen Lacey and
Richard Box show that a simple modification to bubble sort
makes it a fast and efficient sort method on par with
heapsort and quicksort.

In a bubble sort, each item is compared to the next; if
the two are out of order, they are swapped. This method is
slow because it is susceptible to the appearance of what Box
and Lacey call turtles. A turtle is a relatively low value
located near the end of the table. During a bubble sort,
this element moves only one position for each pass, so a
single turtle can cause maximal slowing. Almost every long
table of items contains a turtle.

Their simple modification of bubble sort which they call
`combsort' eliminates turtles quickly by allowing the
distance between compared items to be greater than one.
This distance - the JUMP-SIZE - is initially set to the
TABLE-SIZE. Before each pass, the JUMP-SIZE is divided by
1.3 (the shrink factor). If this causes it to become less
than 1, it is simply set to 1, collapsing combsort into
bubble sort. An exchange of items moves items by JUMP-SIZE
positions rather than only one position, causing turtles to
jump rather than crawl. As with any sort method where the
displacement of an element can be larger than one position,
combsort is not stable - like elements do not keep their
relative positions. This is rarely a problem in practice.

Successively shrinking the JUMP-SIZE is analogous to
combing long, tangled hair - stroking first with your
fingers alone, then with a pick comb that has widely spaced
teeth, followed by finer combs with progressively closer
teeth - hence the name comb sort. Lacey and Box came up
with a shrink factor of 1.3 empirically by testing combsort
on over 200,000 random tables. There is at present no
theoretical justification for this particular value; it just
works...

Here is then the magic code (re-using declarations and a
code paragraph from bubble sort). It is clearly correct, as
it (unless the table is empty) ends with JUMP-SIZE = 1
(ensured by the `+3') and therefore degenerates into bubble
sort:

COMB-SORT-THE-ARRAY.
MOVE SPACE TO SWAP-INDICATOR
MOVE TABLE-SIZE TO JUMP-SIZE
PERFORM COMB-SORT
UNTIL NO-MORE-SWAPS
AND JUMP-SIZE NOT > 1
.

COMB-SORT.
COMPUTE JUMP-SIZE = (10 * JUMP-SIZE + 3) / 13
COMPUTE UPPER-LIMIT = TABLE-SIZE - JUMP-SIZE
MOVE SPACE TO SWAP-INDICATOR
PERFORM COMPARE-AND-SWAP-KEYS
VARYING ITEM-NBR FROM 1 BY 1
UNTIL ITEM-NBR > UPPER-LIMIT
.

The careful termination test (JUMP-SIZE NOT > 1) also
caters for the case where the table is empty.

5. Comparison of Table Sorting Methods

The above implementations of bubble sort, heapsort,
quicksort, and combsort were tested on from 200 to 1600
items, each consisting of a 9-character key and 11
characters of data. The times below are measured in
1/1000ths of a second and are the averages of sorting four
different random sequences. The test program was run on a
PC (16 MHz 386SX) and on an AS/400 (B35). After the tables
had been sorted, they were sorted again to measure the time
for sorting already sorted data.

a. Results for Bubble Sort

Items: Order: Time PC: Time AS/400:

200 random 1072 5490
sorted 9 36

400 random 4372 24126
sorted 16 62

800 random 17875 100725
sorted 28 113

1600 random 71390 401785
sorted 55 213

Bubble sort is very fast on already sorted data, but very
slow on random data. As the number of data elements grows,
bubble sort slows to a crawl and becomes useless.

b. Results for Heapsort

Items: Order: Time PC: Time AS/400:

200 random 82 342
sorted 68 362

400 random 151 770
sorted 165 813

800 random 330 1734
sorted 357 1829

1600 random 783 3857
sorted 811 4046

Heapsort is of medium complexity and does a very good job.
On already sorted data it slows down a trifle.

c. Results for Quicksort

Items: Order: Time PC: Time AS/400:

200 random 68 275
sorted 20 127

400 random 165 650
sorted 68 273

800 random 330 1410
sorted 151 613

1600 random 715 2974
sorted 316 1374

Quicksort is of high complexity and owes its performance
on sorted data to the built-in insertion-sort.

d. Results for Combsort

Items: Order: Time PC: Time AS/400:

200 random 110 453
sorted 55 326

400 random 192 1103
sorted 151 814

800 random 467 2621
sorted 316 1826

1600 random 1076 6299
sorted 715 4254

Combsort is just a single, easy line more than bubble
sort, but performs spectacularly; in fact, almost as well as
the grotesquely more complex quicksort. Because of its
magic simplicity, this is the method we recommend - except
for the most demanding applications where the 50 percent
improvement quicksort offers may be important.

6. Pseudo-sorting

Sometimes it is not necessary to do a full sort of the
array. The classical case is that of finding the median,
ie. that value for which half of the array items are greater
and the other half smaller.

The following very fast algorithm is due to C.A.R. Hoare
(CACM, Jan. 1971). The program finds the element of the
array whose value is fth in order or magnitude; and
rearranges the array such that this element is placed at
index f; and furthermore that all elements with subscripts
lower than f have lesser values, and all elements with
subscripts greater than f have greater values.

To find the median, set f = (1 + ARRAY-SIZE)/2; to find
the first quartile, set f = (1 + ARRAY-SIZE)/4, etc.:

FIND-THE-MEDIAN.
MOVE 1 TO LOWER-BOUND
MOVE ARRAY-SIZE TO UPPER-BOUND
COMPUTE MEDIAN-INDEX = (1 + ARRAY-SIZE) / 2

PERFORM REDUCE-MIDDLE-PART
UNTIL LOWER-BOUND NOT < UPPER-BOUND
.

REDUCE-MIDDLE-PART.
MOVE ARRAY-KEY (MEDIAN-INDEX) TO MEDIAN-KEY
MOVE LOWER-BOUND TO LOWER-INDEX
MOVE UPPER-BOUND TO UPPER-INDEX
PERFORM NARROW-THE-RANGE
UNTIL LOWER-INDEX > UPPER-INDEX

IF MEDIAN-INDEX NOT > UPPER-INDEX
MOVE UPPER-INDEX TO UPPER-BOUND
ELSE
IF MEDIAN-INDEX NOT < LOWER-INDEX
MOVE LOWER-INDEX TO LOWER-BOUND
ELSE
MOVE LOWER-BOUND TO UPPER-BOUND
.

NARROW-THE-RANGE.
PERFORM INCREASE-LOWER-INDEX
UNTIL ARRAY-KEY (LOWER-INDEX) NOT < MEDIAN-KEY

PERFORM DECREASE-UPPER-INDEX
UNTIL ARRAY-KEY (UPPER-INDEX) NOT > MEDIAN-KEY

IF LOWER-INDEX NOT > UPPER-INDEX
MOVE ARRAY-ITEM (LOWER-INDEX) TO SWAP-ITEM
MOVE ARRAY-ITEM (UPPER-INDEX) TO ARRAY-ITEM (LOWER-INDEX)
MOVE SWAP-ITEM TO ARRAY-ITEM (UPPER-INDEX)
PERFORM INCREASE-LOWER-INDEX
PERFORM DECREASE-UPPER-INDEX
.

INCREASE-LOWER-INDEX.
ADD 1 TO LOWER-INDEX
.

DECREASE-UPPER-INDEX.
SUBTRACT 1 FROM UPPER-INDEX
.

The algorithm uses the standard array declarations of this
section with the following additional data declarations:

01 FIND-HANDLING.
02 LOWER-BOUND PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 UPPER-BOUND PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 MEDIAN-INDEX PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 LOWER-INDEX PIC S9(5) COMP.
02 UPPER-INDEX PIC S9(5) COMP.

E. Pseudo-recursive Programming

The quicksort algorithm is a perfect example of an
algorithm which can best be expressed in a recursive manner.
This means that when one procedure calls another (or itself)
two things happen:

+ instruction pointers are stacked so that at the end
of the called procedure, execution can continue in
the calling procedure.

+ local data is also stacked, so that when the calling
procedure resumes, its local data is reinstated.

COBOL saves only one instruction pointer per paragraph,
and has no concept of local data. We adapt to the
limitations of COBOL by using a stack to store `requests'
and a loop which takes the next request and processes it. A
`recursive' call is in the form of new requests, which are
stacked. When the stack is empty, all recursive calls have
been processed. Any local data is also stacked.

Take an (unrealistic) Pascal procedure which does a
recursive call:

procedure doit (number: integer);
begin
if number > 1 then doit (number - 1)
end;

In COBOL, we would implement this as follows:

MOVE 1 TO STACK-PTR
MOVE NUMBER TO STACKED-NUMBER (STACK-PTR)
PERFORM DOIT
UNTIL STACK-PTR = ZERO
.

DOIT.
MOVE STACKED-NUMBER (STACK-PTR) TO NUMBER
SUBTRACT 1 FROM STACK-PTR
IF NUMBER > 1
SUBTRACT 1 FROM NUMBER
ADD 1 TO STACK-PTR
MOVE NUMBER TO STACKED-NUMBER (STACK-PTR)
.

A good way to understand this technique is to take a
recursive procedure such as a tree-printing algorithm, and
to implement it in COBOL. We show below two more realistic
examples. First the famous `Towers of Hanoi' problem and
then a program to print the call tree of a program (for
reasons of space not showN here - email me for more info,
Leif: le··.@i··.net)

1. Towers of Hanoi

In a monastery in Hanoi there are three diamond rods. God
placed 64 gold disks of different sizes - each with a
central hole- on rod number 1 such that the largest disk is
at the bottom of the stack and the smallest disk is on top.
The munks mission is to move all the disks onto rod number
2. Only one disk may be moved at a time and never may a
larger disk be placed on a smaller one. If needed, disks
may temporarily be placed on the third rod, again in such a
manner that no larger disk rests on a smaller one.

This classical problem can be solved by a recursive
procedure that first moves all disks except the last one
from the source rod to the spare rod, then moves the last -
and largest - disk from the source rod to its final position
on the destination rod, and finally moves all disks from the
spare rod to the destination rod. Moving N-1 disks is then
performed in the same manner recursively until all disks
have been moved:

BEGIN INTEGER M;

PROCEDURE MOVE (N, SOURCE, DEST, SPARE);
INTEGER N; STRING SOURCE, DEST, SPARE;
BEGIN
IF N > 1 THEN MOVE (N-1, SOURCE, SPARE, DEST);
WRITE (OUT, "MOVE DISK ", N,
" FROM ", SOURCE,
" TO " , DEST);
IF N > 1 THEN MOVE (N-1, SPARE, DEST, SOURCE)
END;

WRITE (OUT, "NBR OF DISKS = "); READ (IN, M);
IF M > 0 THEN MOVE (M, "SOURCE", "DEST", "SPARE")
END

The COBOL version of the program follows below. As we
wish to illustrate pseudo-recursion rather than
input/output, we exceptionally tolerate a non-portable
program that uses ACCEPT and DISPLAY. The program counter
is explicitly managed with the variable WHAT-TO-DO and
parameters (which are in a sense local to each invocation of
the procedure) are stacked along with the program counter.
The call of the procedure in the main program is simulated
by stacking the first set of parameters.

000100 IDENTIFICATION DIVISION.
000200 PROGRAM-ID. HANOI.
000300
000400 AUTHOR. LEIF SVALGAARD.
000500 DATE-WRITTEN. 91/04/22
000600 -REVISED: 91/05/01.
000700
000800 ENVIRONMENT DIVISION.
000900
001000 CONFIGURATION SECTION.
001100 SOURCE-COMPUTER. ALMOST-PORTABLE.
001200 OBJECT-COMPUTER. ALMOST-PORTABLE.
001300
001400 DATA DIVISION.
001500
001600 WORKING-STORAGE SECTION.
001700
002000 01 STACK-SPACE.
002100 02 STACK-PTR PIC S9(3) COMP.
002200 02 STACK-ITEM OCCURS 64.
002300 03 DISK-NBR PIC 9(2).
002400 03 SOURCE-ROD PIC X(6).
002500 03 DEST-ROD PIC X(6).
002600 03 SPARE-ROD PIC X(6).
002700 03 WHAT PIC 9(1).
002800
002900 01 LOCAL-VARIABLES.
003000 02 THE-DISK-NBR PIC 9(2).
003100 02 THE-SOURCE-ROD PIC X(6) VALUE "SOURCE".
003200 02 THE-DEST-ROD PIC X(6) VALUE "DEST".
003300 02 THE-SPARE-ROD PIC X(6) VALUE "SPARE".
003400 02 THE-WHAT PIC 9(1).
003500
003600 01 GLOBAL-VARIABLES.
003700 02 SWAP-ROD PIC X(6).
003800 02 WHAT-TO-DO PIC 9(1).
003900
004000 PROCEDURE DIVISION.
004100 BEGIN-PROGRAM.
004200 DISPLAY "NBR OF DISKS = " NO ADVANCING
004300 ACCEPT THE-DISK-NBR
004400
004500 IF THE-DISK-NBR > ZERO
004600 MOVE 1 TO STACK-PTR, WHAT-TO-DO
004700 MOVE LOCAL-VARIABLES TO STACK-ITEM (1)
004800 PERFORM MOVE-DISK
004900 UNTIL STACK-PTR = ZERO
005000 .
005100 STOP RUN
005200 .
005300
005400 MOVE-DISK.
005500 MOVE STACK-ITEM (STACK-PTR) TO LOCAL-VARIABLES
005600 IF WHAT-TO-DO = 1
005700 PERFORM MOVE-DISKS-AWAY
005800 ELSE
005900 IF WHAT-TO-DO = 2
006000 PERFORM SHOW-DISK-MOVED
006100 ELSE
006200 IF WHAT-TO-DO = 3
006300 PERFORM MOVE-DISKS-BACK
006400 ELSE
006500 MOVE WHAT (STACK-PTR) TO WHAT-TO-DO
006600 SUBTRACT 1 FROM STACK-PTR
006700 .
006800
006900 MOVE-DISKS-AWAY.
007000 MOVE THE-SPARE-ROD TO SWAP-ROD
007100 MOVE THE-DEST-ROD TO THE-SPARE-ROD
007200 MOVE SWAP-ROD TO THE-DEST-ROD
007300 PERFORM MOVE-THE-DISKS
007400 .
007500
007600 MOVE-THE-DISKS.
007700 ADD 1 TO WHAT-TO-DO
007800 IF THE-DISK-NBR > 1
007900 SUBTRACT 1 FROM THE-DISK-NBR
008000 MOVE WHAT-TO-DO TO THE-WHAT
008100 ADD 1 TO STACK-PTR
008200 MOVE LOCAL-VARIABLES TO STACK-ITEM (STACK-PTR) 008300 MOVE 1 TO WHAT-TO-DO
008400 .
008500
008600 SHOW-DISK-MOVED.
008700 ADD 1 TO WHAT-TO-DO
008800 DISPLAY "MOVE DISK " THE-DISK-NBR
008900 " FROM " THE-SOURCE-ROD
009000 " TO " THE-DEST-ROD
009100 .
009200
009300 MOVE-DISKS-BACK.
009400 MOVE THE-SPARE-ROD TO SWAP-ROD
009500 MOVE THE-SOURCE-ROD TO THE-SPARE-ROD
009600 MOVE SWAP-ROD TO THE-SOURCE-ROD
009700 PERFORM MOVE-THE-DISKS
009800 .

In a small program like this, the extra machinery needed
to handle the recursion looms large. In realistic programs
- like the Structure Analyser in the following example -
the extra code to implement recursion is negligible. If a
problem is inherently recursive - and many are - it pays to
think recursively and use the pseudo-recursive techniques
shown here. It is no excuse to say: COBOL does not support
recursion directly, therefore I cannot solve my problem.
The programming language used is very rarely the true
blocking factor.

It is often said that recursion is too expensive in terms
of overhead. This is only true for trivial, small programs
that use recursion where simple iteration should have been
used. In realistic programs, recursion is not in the inner
loop anyway and thus carries little or no run-time penalty.
It is also not true that recursion is difficult or esoteric
to use.
```

#### ↳ Re: Insertion Sort

- **From:** "arnold trembley" <ua-author-6588869@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1996-12-16T19:00:03+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-535cc2801f-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`
- **References:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`

```

Steven Richmond wrote:
› 
› Hi there
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
› Steven Richmond

I don't know if this helps, but I've done something like this on several
occasions. Specifically, I would read a file that contained some data I
wanted to load into a table, and the data would be in random sequence on the
file. I wanted to build a table that I could do a SEARCH ALL (binary search)
on, so the table needed to be ordered.

I initialized every element in the table to high-values. For each record, I
performed a serial SEARCH on the table. If I found a match, that meant I had
already tabled up that particular 'key', so the SEARCH would be terminated.
If I found an empty (high-value) entry, I added the new key.

When adding the new key, I saved the high-used subscript/index and performed
a one-pass bubble sort from the high-used key down to subscript/index 2. The
one-pass bubble sort can be terminated early as soon as a swap is made.
This technique assumes you want to build a table in ascending sequence.

Since the table is pre-filled with high-values at the high end, it can later
be searched with a SEARCH ALL command. This technique is probably not
especially efficient, but it's not excessively costly in execution time. The
one-pass bubble sort probably takes less time that the file I/O (up to a
table with several thousand entries). Typically, the whole table insertion
routine is either part of an initialization paragraph (so it only happens
once in the program with many table lookups later), or else it is done to
table up values for printing lots of summary totals.

I'm not sure if this addresses your question, and I would be glad to learn
alternate ways of solving the similar problems. I have learned from painful
experience that serial SEARCH'es can be very expensive if repeated for every
input record in a large batch run.

Arnold Trembley
Software Engineer I (just a job title, still a programmer)
MasterCard International
St. Louis, Missouri
```

#### ↳ Re: Insertion Sort

- **From:** "chris burr" <ua-author-2463283@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1996-12-17T19:00:04+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-535cc2801f-p4@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`
- **References:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`

```

Steven Richmond wrote:
› 
› Hi there
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
› --
Here is simple one I used for a project in my Data Structures class.
Any comments from those that make their living from doing these are
welcome and appreciated.

Chris.

/
DATA DIVISION.

FILE SECTION.

FD PARTS-FILE
LABEL RECORDS ARE STANDARD
RECORD CONTAINS 30 CHARACTERS
DATA RECORD IS PART-RECORD
VALUE OF ID IS 'LNKCRE.JRC'.

01 PART-RECORD.
05 PART-NUMBER-IN PIC S9(4).
05 QUANTITY-ON-HAND-IN PIC S9(4).
05 FILLER PIC XX.
05 PART-NAME-IN PIC X(20).
/
WORKING-STORAGE SECTION.

01 PROGRAM-INDICATORS.

05 ARE-THERE-MORE-RECORDS PIC X
VALUE 'Y'.
88 THERE-ARE-MORE-RECORDS
VALUE 'Y'.
88 NO-MORE-RECORDS
VALUE 'N'.

01 PROGRAM-ACCUMULATORS.
05 NUMBER-OF-RECORDS PIC S9(3) VALUE
ZEROS.

01 HOST-VECTOR.

05 LIST-ITEM OCCURS 1 TO 200 TIMES DEPENDING ON MAX-RECORDS.
10 PART-NUMBER PIC S9(4).
10 QUANTITY-ON-HAND PIC S9(4).
10 PART-NAME PIC X(20).
10 LINK PIC S9(3).

PROCEDURE DIVISION.

/
*********************************************************
* 20000-CREATE-LIST. *
* *
* LOADS RECORDS FROM THE PARTS FILE, CALLING INSERT *
* SORT ROUTINE FOR EACH ONE, THEN LINKS THEM. *
* *
*********************************************************

20000-CREATE-LIST.

READ PARTS-FILE
AT END MOVE 'N' TO ARE-THERE-MORE-RECORDS.

MOVE HIGH-VALUES TO PART-NAME (1).

PERFORM 21000-SORT-AND-READ-LOOP
UNTIL NO-MORE-RECORDS.

PERFORM 22000-LINK-THE-LIST.

/
*********************************************************
* 21000-SORT-AND-READ-LOOP. *
* *
* INSERTION SORTS A NEW RECORD IN THE LIST AND THEN *
* READS THE NEXT RECORD. *
* *
*********************************************************

21000-SORT-AND-READ-LOOP.

MOVE 1 TO INSERT-POSITION.
PERFORM
UNTIL PART-NAME-IN < PART-NAME (INSERT-POSITION)
ADD 1 TO INSERT-POSITION
END-PERFORM.

ADD 1 TO NUMBER-OF-RECORDS.
PERFORM 21100-DISPLACE-RECORD VARYING MOVE-POSITION FROM
NUMBER-OF-RECORDS BY -1
UNTIL MOVE-POSITION < INSERT-POSITION.

PERFORM 21200-INSERT-NEW-RECORD.

READ PARTS-FILE
AT END MOVE 'N' TO ARE-THERE-MORE-RECORDS.

/
*********************************************************
* 21100-DISPLACE-RECORD. *
* *
* MOVES RECORD DOWN ONE POSITION IN LIST. *
* *
*********************************************************

21100-DISPLACE-RECORD.

MOVE LIST-ITEM (MOVE-POSITION) TO LIST-ITEM (MOVE-POSITION + 1).

/
*********************************************************
* 21200-INSERT-NEW-RECORD. *
* *
* MOVES A NEW RECORD FROM INPUT AREA TO THE INSERT *
* POSITION IN THE LIST. *
* *
*********************************************************

21200-INSERT-NEW-RECORD.

MOVE PART-NUMBER-IN TO PART-NUMBER (INSERT-POSITION).
MOVE QUANTITY-ON-HAND-IN TO QUANTITY-ON-HAND (INSERT-POSITION).
MOVE PART-NAME-IN TO PART-NAME (INSERT-POSITION).
```

#### ↳ Re: Insertion Sort

- **From:** "casey..." <ua-author-994183@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 1996-12-23T19:00:05+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-535cc2801f-p5@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`
- **References:** `<32b5b430.14976620@news.u-net.com>`

```

How do you define an insertion sort?
Computer Consultant: FoxPro 2.6 for Windows, MSC++ 7.0a SDK, Visual BASIC, COBOL-85, and others. INET: cas··.@a··.com
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
