[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# Searching Lists - was Soundex

_2 messages · 2 participants · 2011-11_

---

### Searching Lists - was Soundex

- **From:** James Gavan <jgavan@shaw.ca>
- **Date:** 2011-11-08T21:17:10-07:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<b9nuq.29601$0s1.9844@newsfe11.iad>`

```
This is in response to the information from Jerry and Pete provided on 
Soundex.

Firstly don't let us have a dissertation on the merits of C# rather than 
COBOL. This message is not promoting COBOL but showing a technique in 
the only language I have programmed in. And I think it is more effective 
than Soundex with only a 36% success rate. This is the first time I've 
looked at COBOL since December 2010 and will probably be the last.

INTRODUCTION :

Like the average user I have signed up occasionally in the past to 
access sites on the Web. Depending upon the site you can be presented 
with a Dropdown List of alphabetized country names. Although I'm near 
the top of the list it irritated me that I had to vertically scroll 
through some 20 - 30 countries before I got to 'Canada'. My observation 
was that I should be able to enter 'Can' which would take me straight to 
the element for 'Canada'. This is what this Keyboard Project is about.

Today I had to visit my family doctor, and very quickly he showed me how 
he can access patients Surnames and Firstname, obviously close to the 
technique I developed in 2003. Worth noting my doctor has some 22,000 
patients so volume doesn't appear to be a problem with his hardware 
configuration. (Obviously there's no way he probably sees half of the 
above on a regular basis. My own son is signed up with him and hasn't 
visited him yet !). If you want to see a parallel technique - take any 
application with an MS Help file format and follow the Help screen as 
you make different keystrokes.

Please note when referring to the mechanics I am using Micro Focus OO 
COBOL terminology. I have fine tuned the code written in 2003 to give 
what I describe below.

Basic System :

Unfortunately I can't show the screen dialog here because CLC wont 
accept attachments. So the screen looks as follows :-

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Dialog Title) :- EXAMPLE OF SEARCHING

  "Enter Cheese Name, one or several letters, Upper/Lowercase, and you 
can Insert or Backspace etc. When finished click on the Listbox Selection

{........entry field...........}

......................................................
		Listbox entries :

Ayshire			Scotland	000004
etc.......
Camembert		France
Gjetost			Norway		000009
Gorgonzola		Italy		000022
Gouda Aged		Holland		000034
Gouda Caraway		Holland		000035
Gouda Medium		Holland		000036
Gouda Young		Holland		000037
Gruyere			Switzerland	000100
Harvarti		Denmark		000202
Harvarti Caraway	Denmark		000203
etc........
Wensleydale		England		000095
..................................................

	<OK - Clear Selection>        <Exit>
-------------------------------------------------------
The system is a list (41 cheeses) of names hard coded into the Business 
Control program. 41 isn't many, but sufficient to test the methods.
In my example above, Wensleydale occupies the 41st Element.

the DB record :-

01 T2 redefines T1.
    05 T-record occurs MaxTable.
       10 ProductCode                  pic 9(06).
       10                              pic x.
       10 CheeseName                   pic x(20).
       10                              pic x.
       10 CheeseCountry                pic x(12).

The Collection procedure takes the above to put as elements into a 
Sorted Collection :-

01 ByName-record.
    05 CheeseName                pic x(20).
    05 Tab1                      pic x.
    05 CheeseCountry             pic x(12).
    05 Tab2                      pic x.
    05 ProductCode               pic 9(06).

b) The created collection, which is NOT edited, is passed to a Dialog 
for display in a Listbox with a vertical scroll bar.

c) Above the Listbox is an Entryfield to input descriptions you are 
searching on. The properties for the input entryfield you set up are :-

*>-----------------------------------------------------------
Method-id. "zCreateCheeseEntryfield".
*>-----------------------------------------------------------
Local-storage section.
78 p2ce-update                              value 64.
01 ls-event                                 pic x(4) comp-5.
01 ls-length                                pic x(4) comp-5.
Linkage section.
copy "dilogprm.new" replacing ==(tag)== by ==lnk==.

Procedure Division using lnk-Params.

  invoke self "getObjectFromId"
         using lnk-ID returning lnk-object

  invoke lnk-object "accessSystemEvents"

  if lnk-FontType <> zeroes
     invoke lnk-object "setfont" using os-Font(lnk-FontType)
  End-if

*> Dialog-ViewType

  move lnk-Length to ls-length

  if ls-length <> zeroes
     invoke lnk-object "setLength" using ls-length
  End-if

  initialize                ws-MethodRec
  move lnk-MethodName    to ws-MethodName
  move lnk-ClearType     to ws-ClearType
  move lnk-DisplayFormat to ws-DisplayFormat
  move lnk-ReturnType    to ws-ReturnType

  invoke os-Collection(1) "add" using lnk-object
  invoke os-Collection(2) "add" using ws-MethodRec

  move p2ce-Update to ls-event    ******************************
  set os-KeyboardObject to lnk-Object
  invoke lnk-object "setEventto" using
     ls-event, self, "returnKeyboardChars ",
          lnk-Field, ls-length

End Method "zCreateCheeseEntryfield".
*>-----------------------------------------------------------

***** Note the p2ce-update event above provided by Micro Focus - this is 
telling this object that the program wants all keystrokes made in the 
entryfield. The Entryfield accepts 1 - 20 into pic x(20), Upper/Lower 
case mixed. Apart from an initial start-up for Gained-Focus on the 
entryfield, neither Gained or Lost Focus events are used against the 
Entryfield or Listbox.

The event returned to the Control program from the Dialog object is :-

*>---------------------------------------------------------------
Method-id. "ReturnKeyboardChars".
*>---------------------------------------------------------------
Local-storage section.
01 ls-object                     object reference.
Linkage section.
01 lnk-Field                     pic x(4) comp-5.

Procedure Division using lnk-Field.

invoke os-Collection(2) "at"
        using lnk-Field returning ws-Methodrec
invoke os-Collection(1) "at"
        using Lnk-Field returning ls-object
invoke os-Caller ws-MethodName using ls-Object
*********
That last line above :-
os-Caller = SearchCheeses (the control program)
ws-Methodname :- EF-ENTRYFIELD
ls-Object = Object for the Entryfield
************************

Exit Method.
End Method "ReturnKeyboardChars".
*>---------------------------------------------------------------

CLASS - SearchCheeses
*>--------------------------------------------------------------
Method-id. "EF-ENTRYFIELD".
*>---------------------------------------------------------------
Local-storage section.
01 n                                pic x(4) comp-5.
01 ls-length                        pic x(4) comp-5.
01 ls-Text                          pic x(20).
01 ls-string                        object reference.
Linkage section.
01 lnk-Object                       object reference.

Procedure Division using lnk-Object.

initialize ls-text
move length of ls-Text to ls-length
invoke lnk-object "getText" returning ls-string
invoke ls-string "trimblanks" returning ls-string
invoke ls-string "getValueWithSize"
        using lnk-Length returning ls-text

*> Note : we are counting backwards for non-space characters.
*> Incrementing forwards using "Gouda Aged" would give a length
*> of 5 (Gouda) NOT 10 (Gouda Aged)


if     ls-text <> spaces
        move Function UPPER-CASE (ls-text) to ls-text
        compute ls-length = function length (ls-text)
        Perform varying n from ls-length by -1
                until ls-text(n:1) <> space
                OR  n = 1
        End-perform

        invoke os-CheeseDBI "matchRecords"
             using ls-text, n, returning ws-Index

        if   ws-Index <> zeroes
             initialize Dialog-Params
             set Field-LB-GenList to true
             move ws-Index to Dialog-Index
             set isSelected to true
             invoke os-Dialog "setSelectedUnselected"
                 using Dialog-Params
	**** Selected/Unselected highlights the element in the
		Listbox which matches current input key

        else invoke self "Message-Failure" using ls-Text
        End-if

End-if

Exit Method
End Method "EF-ENTRYFIELD".
*>---------------------------------------------------------------

CLASS - os-CheeseDBI - Cheese Database Interface

WORKING-STORAGE SECTION.
*>-------------------------------------------------------------

01 ws-CollectionSize        pic x(4) comp-5.
01 ws-RecordLength          pic x(4) comp-5 value zeroes.
01 ByName-record.
    10 CheeseName            pic x(20).
    10 Tab1                  pic x.
    10 CheeseCountry         pic x(12).
    10 Tab2                  pic x.
    10 ProductCode           pic 9(06).

01 LastSearchKey.
    10 last-Index             pic x(4) comp-5 value 0.
    10 last-Name              pic x(20).

01 os-Collection            object reference value null.
*>-------------------------------------------------------------

*>-------------------------------------------------------------
Method-id. "matchRecords".  *> Method Revised Nov 2011
*>------------------------------------------------------------
Local-storage section.
01 n                            pic x(4) comp-5.
01 ls-Cheesename                pic x(20).
01 ls-string                    object reference.
01 P                            pic x(4) comp-5.
01 charx                        pic x.
Linkage section.
01 lnk-Text                     pic x(20).
01 lnk-Length                   pic x(4) comp-5.
01 lnk-index                    pic x(4) comp-5.

Procedure Division using lnk-Text, lnk-Length
                   returning lnk-Index.

*>-------------------------------------------------------------
*>  (Input) Lnk-Text   ------Search Table------------
*>                        Name     Index
*>
*>      C                 C          20
*>      CAM               CAM        56
*>      CA                CA         45
*>-------------------------------------------------------------

initialize lnk-Index
invoke os-Collection "size" returning ws-CollectionSize
move function UPPER-CASE (lnk-Text) to lnk-Text
*> The value of Last-Name is already stored as UPPERCASE

Evaluate true

     when        Last-Index = zeroes
                 move 1 to P

     when        lnk-Text > Last-Name
                 move Last-Index to P

     when other  move 1 to P

End-Evaluate


PERFORM varying n from P by 1 until n > ws-CollectionSize

    invoke os-Collection "at"
           using n returning ls-string
    invoke ls-string "getValuewithSize"
           using ws-RecordLength returning ByName-Record
    move CheeseName to ls-CheeseName
    move function UPPER-CASE (Cheesename) to ls-Cheesename

    Evaluate true

         *> First condition - you are searching on "G", and when
         *> you reach "H" in the sorted collection, no point in
         *> continuing

         when    ls-CheeseName(1:1) > lnk-Text(1:1)
                 EXIT METHOD

         when    lnk-Text(1:lnk-Length) =
                     ls-CheeseName(1:lnk-Length)
                 move n to Last-Index, lnk-Index
                 move lnk-Text(1:lnk-Length) to Last-Name
                 EXIT METHOD
    End-Evaluate

END-PERFORM

Exit Method.
End Method "matchRecords".
*>-------------------------------------------------------------

**** Some explanation of "MatchRecords" because this is where the search 
truly occurs. The following are only visually apparent when you use the 
M/F Animator to step through the code. Assume you were looking for 
"Cheddar" and you enter the three characters "che"; each 'current' 
string is sent individually to this method, that is :-

(1:1) = "c" - if the first record was 'Camembert' then its index
  	position is stored
(1:2) = "ch"
(1:3) = "che"

1:1 is going to find "c" and its index position is stored
1:2 uses the index position of 1:1 to start the second search
1:3 uses the index position of 1:2 to start the third search etc.....

Again not apparent visually, but each of the three 'keys' above 
highlights the appropriate entry in the List, but you only see the third 
or final highlight.

Of course if you have highlighted a record starting "che" then you are 
already close to 'Cheddar'. Without further entryfield input you can 
click on the appropriate cheese or use the vertical scroll bar. You can 
go backwards and forwards between entryfield input or scrolling when 
near the description you want.

Click a highlighted entry or an entry further down, not yet reached and 
you get a messagebox "You selected Product..... Name..... <PB-OK>".

If you key in characters which are not applicable, then you will get a 
failed message "Your key xxxxx not found <PB-OK>.

The above routine also tests for the last record. In my Collection the 
final index position is 41 = Wensleydale, so as a result of entering "w" 
it will highlight Wensleydale. You could add all characters for that 
name but it will still highlight Wensleydale. However if instead of 
entering "Wens" you enter "WenZ" - you will get a failed message.

That summarizes what the project is about.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

COLLECTIONS :

Note that with Windows these can be created separately from CSC 
(collection support classes) or can be done within GUI Listbox Listview 
  or ComboBox Droplist controls themselves. I find this dual approach 
conflicting, and have restricted collection creation, changes, and 
searching to the CSC. The collection created by CSC, as amended, is 
passed to the Listbox giving a different object handle to the collection 
- but this is the same physical collection as the original - just two 
handles to the same object. Changes in one program that affect the 
Collection Object are also reflected in other programs using the same 
object.

Another reason for using only the CSC - collections can be useful 'in 
memory' tools, with automatic element increases as required. For 
example, Amazon etc. - select and put books into a shopping cart (an 
unordered collection) and subsequently turn the unordered collection 
into a sorted collection for GUI display/printing. Further sorted 
versions can be generated for warehouse picking lists, vehicle loads etc.

Background on the Micro Focus approach to Collections - and I am 
suggesting they may be paralleled in other OO languages.

- You create a Collection with or without a starting size. Where no size 
is indicated, M/F allocates a default size of 10 elements. Each time you 
want to add records, (exceeding current size), then M/F use a call to 
MALLOC to increase memory size for the collection. Keeping this topic 
brief, the final code at the end of this message is the source for 
TestSize.cbl.

VOLUMES.

I don't have a categoric answer to this one; it depends very much upon 
your hardware configuration and the requirements needed in your 
particular application.

The first thing to take into account is the size of your displayable 
element. My Byname record is minimal to be able to identify the entry = 
40 characters. So :-

# of Elements	Times	= Memory Requirement
---------------------------------------------
    500		40		 20,000
  1,000		,,		 40,000
  6,000		,,		 etc...
10,000		,,		 etc...
20,000		,,		800,000

What is an acceptable figure to you for memory usage ? Another factor is 
frequency of usage, infrequent, random or constantly being used by input 
clerks or professionals and their secretaries. Recall my family doctor 
has some 22,000 patients, searching on two fields Surname and First Name.

For performance if you have say, 2,000, 10,00 elements in the 
collection, and enter the name "Zebowski", you don't want the 
application to always start at the top "A" entry. If you look at the 
code for the method above "MatchRecords" you could adapt the entry for :-

01 LastSearchKey.
    10 last-Index             pic x(4) comp-5 value 0.
    10 last-Name              pic x(20).

to read :-

01 LastSearchKey occurs 26.
    10 last-Index             pic x(4) comp-5 value 0.
    10 last-Name              pic x(01).

and as a housekeeping routine read through the complete collection to 
get the first index position for the elements starting with "A", then 
"B" then etc. Store the result of this table into a reference file and 
access it to set up the table in "MatchRecords". Then if somebody wants 
to search on "Williamson" you access the first index for "W" in the 
revised table and start your search from the first element with "W". The 
possible permutations based on this idea are dependent upon how your 
Search is organized for your users.

You should remember that the example I've given above is NOT edited, so 
there is no re-positioning that occurs resulting from Adding or Deleting 
any records for a sorted collection. If your collection is created from 
a Database where Add/Changes/Deletions are occurring - then there is a 
problem - you will have to put on your thinking hat.

Another factor with a non-Edited collection is that you can use it in a 
multi-user mode. You can have a 'Master Program' which has the 
os-Master-Object created for the Collection. Then individual users 
access that one collection :-

invoke MasterProgram-Object "getCollectionID"  ( the os-Master-Object)
		returning os-Collection

The individual users then use their local version of the project but 
with their particular reference to os-Collection; different names, 
different object-references, but they are all accessing os-Master-Object.

As I wrote above, the Collection is NOT edited, so in theory at least, 
there should be no conflict between the routine for two different users 
queries. Again multi-user access will be affected by an Editable DB. You 
may have to introduce Lock-Mode procedures, just like you would for 
COBOL files.

Another approach would be to use a Treeview, replacing the LastSearchKey 
occurs 26. With a runthrough against the DB, keep a record of where each 
alphabetic letter starts. It should be written so that it is the user 
who determines groupings based on number of elements per group. The 
Treeview could then show something like the following :-

     <Root>
     :.........(Icon - Red Ball) [A - C]
     :
     ..........(Icon - Red Ball) [D - G]
     :
     ......... etc...

Based on volumes for the first or perhaps two characters, each element 
in the Treeview could hold the first index of the first/two characters. 
(Think in terms of MacDonald or McDonald if both forms are legitimate).
Calgary has, I think, the fifth largest Chinese community in N. America. 
We have six pages, four column per page for the Surname 'Lee' !!

Depending upon volumes, those groupings I show in the Treeview could be 
written to separate sub-Collections. Using icons - e.g.

	Red Ball 	- sub-Collection not yet created
	Green Ball 	- sub-Collection created

the groupings need only be created ONCE per day when they are first 
required. When created the Treeview shows a Green icon instead of a Red 
icon.

Let you mind jump around for further enhancements. Some will be 
blue-skying, others might be relevant and efficient.

Jimmy, Calgary AB

****************----------------------------------------**********

The code for Sizing collections follows :-

*>-------------------TestSize.cbl--------------------------------

class-control.
     TestSize                    is class "testsize"
     OrderedCollection           is class "ordrdcll"
     COBOLpicX                   is class "picx"
     .

working-storage section.

01 charx                    pic x.
01 n                        pic x(4) comp-5.
01 p                        PIC X(4) COMP-5.

01 ws-capacity              pic s9(9) comp-5.
01 ws-size                  pic s9(9) comp-5.
01 MyRecord.
    05 RecordName            pic x(20) value all "x".
    05 RecordIndex           pic zzzzz9.
01 ws-Length                pic x(4) comp-5.
01 NumberOfElements         pic x(4) comp-5.
01 NewValue                 pic x(4) comp-5 value 16000.
01 IndexValue               pic x(4) comp-5.

01 os-Collection-1          object reference.
01 os-Collection-2          object reference.
01 os-CurrentCollection     object reference.
01 os-Template              object reference.

Procedure Division.

move 17000 to NumberOfElements

move 1 to P
perform CREATE-COLLECTIONS
perform POPULATE
perform CHECK-SIZES-1

invoke os-CurrentCollection "deepFinalize"
             returning os-CurrentCollection

move 2 to P
perform CREATE-COLLECTIONS
perform POPULATE
perform CHECK-SIZES-2

invoke os-CurrentCollection "deepFinalize"
             returning os-CurrentCollection

STOP RUN.

CHECK-SIZES-1.

*> P(1)   Initial Size :     0   Size : 17000  Capacity : 20460

invoke  os-CurrentCollection "size"     returning ws-size
invoke  os-CurrentCollection "capacity" returning ws-Capacity

*> for P = 1 the following reduces the Capacity from
*> 20460 to 17000

*> You can "growTo" is a little misleading for a method
*> name because you can GrowUp or GrownDown depending upon
*> ws-Size. BUT, if your size was originally 5678 and you
*> enter a size of 5000, you will lose 678 elements - from the 
Collection, but it doesn't reflect in your database.

invoke  os-CurrentCollection "growTo"        *> NewValue = 16000
     using NewValue returning  os-CurrentCollection

invoke  os-CurrentCollection "size"     returning ws-size
invoke  os-CurrentCollection "capacity" returning ws-Capacity

*> P(1)   Initial Size :         Size : 17000  Capacity : 17000

*> If we now attempt to access elements : if IndexValue
*> = 14000 it will return that element showing the Index
*> number which I put in MyRecord. If however I move 16500
*> to IndexValue the following will abort :-

*>move 16500 to IndexValue
*>invoke  os-CurrentCollection "at"
*>          using IndexValue returning MyRecord
.

CHECK-SIZES-2.

*> P(2)   Initial Size : 17000   Size : 17000  Capacity : 17000

invoke  os-CurrentCollection "size"     returning ws-size
invoke  os-CurrentCollection "capacity" returning ws-Capacity
.

CREATE-COLLECTIONS.

*> SIZE     : Number of elements added to the collection
*> CAPACITY : Number of elements collection is capable of holding

move function length (MyRecord) to ws-length
invoke CobolPicx "newClass"
        using ws-Length returning os-template

Evaluate true

     when P = 1 move zeroes to ws-size
                invoke OrderedCollection "ofValues"
                 using os-template, ws-size
                       returning os-Collection-1
                 set os-CurrentCollection to os-Collection-1

     when P = 2 move 17000  to ws-size
                invoke OrderedCollection "ofValues"
                 using os-template, ws-size
                       returning os-Collection-2
                 set os-CurrentCollection to os-Collection-2
End-Evaluate.

POPULATE.

     perform varying n from 1 by 1 until n > NumberOfElements
         move n to RecordIndex
         invoke  os-CurrentCollection "add" using MyRecord
     end-perform

     invoke  os-CurrentCollection "size"     returning ws-size
     invoke  os-CurrentCollection "capacity" returning ws-Capacity
.

*> End Program.

*>----------------------------------------------------------------

	End of Message
```

#### ↳ Re: Searching Lists - was Soundex

- **From:** "Pete Dashwood" <dashwood@removethis.enternet.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2011-11-10T15:46:55+13:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<9i0s91F7h0U1@mid.individual.net>`
- **References:** `<b9nuq.29601$0s1.9844@newsfe11.iad>`

```
James Gavan wrote:
> This is in response to the information from Jerry and Pete provided on
> Soundex.
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> is more effective than Soundex with only a 36% success rate.

I haven't tried the code, but I did look through it and it seems to me that 
it doesn't DO what Soundex does.

It's like comparing apples and bananas; both useful but you wouldn't make an 
apple pie with bananas...

Using a progressive keystroke search is NOT the same as searching for things 
based on what they SOUND like.

For example, it won't pick up Caerphilly if the user enters it as 
"Karefilly".  Soundex (modified as HeyBub suggested) will.

(If I missed something here and it actually will pick this up, please accept 
my apologies and point out where it does it.)

The code posted is interesting but these days the controls themselves have 
progressive keystroke search capability and there's really no need to spell 
it all out.

For myself, if I wanted to do this manually (and I can't imagine why I 
would) and I HAD to do it in COBOL (and I can't imagine why I would) :-),
I'd use a bound list. Then just changing the resultset is automatically 
reflected on the screen.

If you bind your drop down control to an ADO resultset and pass your entry 
field to a stored procedure as a LIKE parameter you can do the whole lot (in 
COBOL) and watch the drop down list change instantly as you type (showing 
only the entries which qualify against what you typed - the list should get 
shorter as you type more characters...), without any further effort on your 
part...

But it STILL won't do what Soundex does...:-)

I get the feeling this was more about using collections than actually 
finding homonyms. The idea of going through a collection to find the start 
of each letter in the alphabet then write that to a file, is repugnant to 
me. Why not use a node collection and load the 26 nodes directly to a 
treeview?

I guess there are many ways to skin a cat and most of us will have our own 
preferences.

Pete.

<snipped extensive interesting code>
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
