[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# Sorts

_9 messages · 5 participants · 2004-05_

---

### Sorts

- **From:** robert.deletethis@wagner.net (Robert Wagner)
- **Date:** 2004-05-01T23:00:32+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net>`

```
Conversation between me (rw) and a co-worker (xx)

xx: What do you have there?
rw: Two Cobol programs that demonstrate under-used features. 
     My favorite is replacing paragraph names with Entry statements.
xx: What are you going to do with them?
rw: I was thinking of posting them to a newsgroup.
xx: You should publish them in a magazine.
rw: I used to write for Computer Language. It didn't pay much money 
     but name recognition got an invitation to speak at a big 
     convention. That, in turn, led to a consulting contract.
xx: Did you get the same reception in the newsgroup?
rw: Nah, lots of bickering and name-calling.
xx: There you go.


*             I'll take Sorts And Lists for a thousand, Alex
*
* These two programs -- Sorts and Lists -- demonstrate Cobol Features
* overlooked by most programmers, while running timing tests on
* sort algorithms.
*
* Glossary.
* We will see three data structures:
*
* Table   An array defined with Occurs. Same as a sequential file.
*
* List    Each entry has a pointer or index containing the address
*         of the next entry, and optionally the previous. Same as
*         a 'random' file.
*
* Tree    Like a family tree, where each node contains one data
*         value and pointers to up to two children, named Left,
*         containing entries less than the node's data, and Right.
*         Nodes with fewer than two children are called Leaves.
*         Same as an indexed file.
*
* Sorts program
*
* Feature: Nested Programs
*
* Cobol is often criticized for having 'an ocean of data' in
* working-storage that is globally accessible to all parts of the
* program. It is also criticized for having overly large monolithic
* programs. Nested programs, seen below, are one answer to that
* objection; we will see another in Trees. They are written like
* external called programs, but they are in the same source file
* with the caller. If they were separately compiled, there would
* be additional administrative work to list them on program
* inventories, promote them through Change Management, perhaps
* list them as dependents in make files.
*
* Nested programs have their own private working-storage and lack
* access to their parent(s)' working-storage unless passed as
* a parameter or declared Global. They have been in the ANSI
* Cobol Standard since 1985.
*
* Test 1. Cobol file sort
*
* This is a familiar Cobol sort with input and output procedures,
* release and return records. No Features here, it is shown to provide a
* timing baseline.
*
* Test 2. Micro Focus table sort
*
* Feature: Table sort
*
* Micro Focus provides an extension allowing you sort a table in memory.
* When we time it, we find its speed is almost identical to the file
* sort in test 1, and half the speed it 'should' be as shown in test 3.
* Apparently, under the covers it is releasing records to and returning
* records from the file sort. This was an extension to the 1985 Standard,
* is included in the 2002 Standard.
*
* Test 3. Quick sort
*
* Feature: Calling C language functions from Cobol
*
* This test calls qsort() in the Standard C Library, and directs it to
* call memcmp().
*
* How do you tell Cobol to use the C calling convention? Not necessary,
* Micro Focus uses the C convention by default. How do you tell the
* linker (loader) to look in C libraries? Not necessary. We stopped
* doing static binding (link edit) many years ago. Binding is now done
* at execution time by a program named "ld", which follows
* LD_LIBRARY_PATH. The C Standard Library is in that path by default. In
* short, you don't have to do anything special. You can see libraries
* that will be loaded at execution time by typing "ldd sorts".
*
* C libraries contain a plethora of useful functions. See
* http://www.tcnj.edu/~cs/doc/CStdLib.html
* also
* http://www.bebits.com/app/2917
* also
* a hundred others in /usr/lib, many defined in Standards
*
* The speed of quick sort is said to be proportional to N log2(N), where
* N is the number of entries and log2 is the base 2 logarithm. Most
* high-speed algorithms run at this speed, for example Shell, Heap and
* Comb sorts. Low-speed sorts such as Bubble run at N*N, are suitable
* only for small values of N, say less than 100.
*
* Tests 4 & 5. Radix sort followed by Insertion sort
*
* Features: The radix algorithm
*           Linked lists using indexes
*
* When we had to sort a large number of punched cards, we put them into
* approximate sequence by sorting on the first few columns with a card
* sorter. Next we put them through a machine called a collator, which
* pulled cards out of order, typically 5-10%. We sorted those cards on
* the full key, then used a collator to merge them into the big deck.
*
* Would you believe the card sorting algorithm, written in Cobol, is
* five times faster than the best high-speed algorithms written in C,
* and about ten times faster than the sorts delivered by Micro Focus?
*
* The algorithm inspects one 'column' at a time, right to left, tossing
* 'cards' into 'pockets' by linking the 'card' to what had previously
* been the last in the 'pocket'. At the end of each pass, it 'gathers'
* the pocket strings into a single string ('deck') by linking the last
* 'card' in a 'pocket' to the first 'card' in the next 'pocket'.
*
* A 'column' can be any convenient size -- one bit, one byte or one
* word. The demo program defines a column as two bytes, 16 bits. This
* requires 65,536 'pockets', of which only a few thousand are actually
* used.
*
* When cards are approximately in order, the program 'merges' the ones
* out of order into place with an Insertion Sort. As a primary
* algorithm, Insertion is slow, close to N*N. But when the entries are
* almost in sequence, it is quite fast. It almost always puts them in
* order with one pass, then makes a second pass to verify that the job
* is complete. It takes a third pass only when there are two consecutive
* steps down. In the 50,000 item test, that doesn't happen, it runs in
* two passes. If radix had sorted on seven bytes rather than six, they
* would have been in perfect order. Insertion would have taken only one
* pass.
*
* The Radix-Insertion algorithm speed is proportional to kN + 2N+, where
* k is the number of columns sorted by Radix (in this case 3) and the +
* following 2N is close-range rearrangements by Insertion. In THEORY,
* the relative speeds of test 3 vs. test 5 should be 50,000 *
* log2(50,000) = 785,000 vs. 3*50,000 + 2*50,000+ =~ 300,000. The ratio
* is 2.6. In PRACTICE, it is 5.0 times as fast. As usual, the devil is
* in the details. If the test program had used subscripts rather than
* indexes, its speed would have been cut in half. Not because indexes
* are that much faster, because every subscript operation generates a
* call to the runtime whereas index operations produce inline code (seen
* via the now commented ASM options).
*
* [If your calculator doesn't have log2, take ln (base e) and divide by .69,
* which is ln(2).]
*
* To compile this "cob -x sorts.cbl". -x produces a Unix executable.
* To execute "sorts".
*
* Continued in trees.cbl
*
* ---------------------------------------------------------------------

      $SET SOURCEFORMAT"FREE"
      $SET NOBOUND
      $SET OPT"2"
      $SET NOTRUNC
      $SET IBMCOMP
      $SET NOCHECK
*     $SET ASM
*     $SET ASMLIST
*     $SET SOURCEASM
 identification division.
 program-id. Sorts.
 author. Robert Wagner.
* Compare speed of three sorts.

* results: Sun SPARC, 1.8 GHz, each test was run ten times.
*                                  --- ratio ---
*                                   2.   3.   4.   5.
* 1. Cobol file sort         3.7   1.0  1.5  7.4  9.3
* 2. Micro Focus table sort  3.8        1.5  7.6  9.5
* 3. qsort()                 2.5             5.0  6.3
* 4. radix-insertion          .5                  1.3
* 5. radix to linked list     .4
*
* Trees.cbl contains an expanded version of these test results.

 data division.
 working-storage section.
 01  test-data GLOBAL.
     05  radix-columns               comp  pic s9(02).
     05  test-number                 comp  pic s9(02).
     05  card      occurs 50001 indexed                *> the data
            x-n first-n last-n previous-n-0 previous-n-1 previous-n-2 x-last.
         10  sort-key.
             15  key-column occurs 15 indexed x-c comp-x pic xx.
         10  next-n                             index.
         10  next-n-1                           index.

 01  init-data.
     05  init-columns value zero     comp  pic s9(02).
     05  init-number  value zero     comp  pic s9(02).
     05  init-card occurs 50001 indexed i-n i-next i-last.
         10  init-key-1                    pic v9(18).
         10  init-key-2                    pic v9(12).
         10  init-next                     index.
         10  init-next-1                   index.

 01  timer-variables.
     05  repeat-factor value 10      comp  pic s9(09).
     05  previous-key                      pic  x(30).
     05  card-count                  comp  pic s9(09).
     05  start-time.
         10  start-hours                   pic  9(02).
         10  start-minutes                 pic  9(02).
         10  start-seconds                 pic  9(02).
         10  start-hundredths              pic  9(02).
     05  end-time.
         10  end-hours                     pic  9(02).
         10  end-minutes                   pic  9(02).
         10  end-seconds                   pic  9(02).
         10  end-hundredths                pic  9(02).
     05  elapsed-time                      pic  z(04).9.

 procedure division.
   perform construct-data

   display '1. Cobol file sort'
   move 1 to init-number
   perform timer-on
   perform repeat-factor times
       perform initialize-test-data
       call 'cobol-sort'
   end-perform
   perform timer-off
   perform verify-sort

   display '2. Micro Focus sort'
   move 2 to init-number
   perform timer-on
   perform repeat-factor times
       perform initialize-test-data
       call 'mf-sort'
   end-perform
   perform timer-off
   perform verify-sort

   display '3. quick sort N log2(N)'
   move 3 to init-number
   perform timer-on
   perform repeat-factor times
       perform initialize-test-data
       call 'quick-sort'
   end-perform
   perform timer-off
   perform verify-sort

   display '4. radix-insertion kN + 2N+'
   move 4 to init-number
   move 3 to init-columns
   perform timer-on
   perform repeat-factor times
       perform initialize-test-data
       call 'radix-sort'
   end-perform
   perform timer-off
   move zero to init-columns
   perform verify-sort

   display '5. radix-insertion to linked list'
   move 5 to init-number
   move 3 to init-columns
   perform timer-on
   perform repeat-factor times
       perform initialize-test-data
       call 'radix-sort'
   end-perform
   perform timer-off

   goback

 . construct-data.
   set x-last, i-last to 50001
   perform varying i-n from 1 by 1 until i-n = i-last
       compute init-key-1 (i-n) = function random
       compute init-key-2 (i-n) = function random
       set i-next to i-n
       set i-next up by 1
       set init-next (i-n) to i-next
       set init-next-1 (i-n) to i-last
   end-perform
   move high-values to init-card (i-last)

 . initialize-test-data.
   move init-data to test-data
   set first-n to 1

 . verify-sort.
   move zero to previous-key, card-count
   set x-n to first-n
   if  x-n equal to x-last
       display 'test failed, no first'
   end-if
   perform until x-n equal to x-last
       if  sort-key (x-n) less than previous-key
           display 'test failed '
               previous-key space sort-key (x-n)
           set x-n to x-last
       else
           move sort-key (x-n) to previous-key
           if  init-columns not equal to zero
               set x-n to next-n (x-n)
           else
               set x-n up by 1
           end-if
           add 1 to card-count
       end-if
   end-perform
   if  card-count not equal to 50000
       display 'test failed, count is ' card-count
   end-if

 . timer-on.
     accept start-time from time
 . timer-off.
     accept end-time from time
     compute elapsed-time rounded =
        (((((((end-hours * 60) +
           end-minutes) * 60) +
           end-seconds) * 100) +
           end-hundredths) -
         ((((((start-hours * 60) +
           start-minutes) * 60) +
           start-seconds) * 100) +
           start-hundredths)) / 100
     display  elapsed-time ' seconds'
 .

 identification division.
 program-id. cobol-sort.
* 1. Performance of Micro Focus file sort.
 environment division.
 input-output section.
 file-control.
     select sort-file assign  to 'sortwork'.
 data division.
 file section.
 sd  sort-file.
 01  file-record.
     05  file-key         pic x(30).
 procedure division.
   sort sort-file on ascending file-key
       input procedure input-procedure
       output procedure output-procedure
   goback
 . input-procedure.
   perform varying x-n from 1 by 1 until x-n = x-last
       release file-record from sort-key (x-n)
   end-perform
 . output-procedure.
   perform varying x-n from 1 by 1 until x-n = x-last
       return sort-file into sort-key (x-n) at end continue
   end-perform
 . end program cobol-sort.

 identification division.
 program-id. mf-sort.
* 2. Performance of Micro Focus table sort.
* Appears to be using above file sort, because speed is nearly
* identical, and half as fast as it 'should' be.
 procedure division.
   sort card on ascending sort-key
   goback
 . end program mf-sort.

 identification division.
 program-id. quick-sort.
* 3. Performance of quick sort in the C library
 working-storage section.
 01  memcmp-pointer procedure-pointer.
 procedure division.
   set memcmp-pointer to entry 'memcmp'

   call 'qsort' using
       card (1)
       by value 50001
       by value length of card
       by value memcmp-pointer

   goback
 . end program quick-sort.

 identification division.
 program-id. radix-sort.
* 4 & 5. Radix sort followed by insertion sort.
* This treats cards as a linked list.
* It does not move cards; it changes forward 'pointers' next-n.
* Test 4 converts the list to a table (for searching); test 5 does not.
 data division.
 working-storage section.
 01  radix-variables.
     05  swap-count                comp   pic s9(09).
     05                  value '00'.
         10  first-pocket          comp-x pic  xx.
     05                  value '99'.
         10  last-pocket           comp-x pic  xx.
     05  radix-pockets.
         10  radix-pocket occurs 65536 indexed pocket, p-last.
             15  first-in-pocket   index.
             15  last-in-pocket    index.
 01  sorted-data.
     05  sorted-columns value zero    comp  pic s9(02).
     05  sorted-number  value zero    comp  pic s9(02).
     05  sorted-card    occurs 50001 indexed s-n.
         10  sorted-key                     pic  x(30).
         10                                     index.
         10                                     index.

 procedure division.
   set p-last to last-pocket
   set p-last up by 1
*  One iteration per column. Speed is kN, where k is the key length
*  in columns. In this case a column is two bytes.
   perform varying x-c from radix-columns by -1 until x-c < 1
*  RUN through the input string, tossing entries into pockets
*  (uppercase words refer to card sorter operations)
       perform varying pocket from first-pocket by 1 until pocket > p-last
           set first-in-pocket (pocket), last-in-pocket (pocket) to x-last
       end-perform
       add 1 to last-pocket
       set x-n to first-n
       perform until x-n equal to x-last
*   determine pocket
           set pocket to key-column (x-n, x-c)
           set pocket up by 1
           if  first-in-pocket (pocket) equal to x-last
               set first-in-pocket (pocket) to x-n
           end-if
           set last-n to last-in-pocket (pocket)
*   link to previous last in pocket
           if  last-in-pocket (pocket) not equal to x-last
               set next-n-1 (last-n) to x-n
           end-if
*   make this last in pocket
           set last-in-pocket (pocket) to x-n
           set x-n to next-n (x-n)
       end-perform
*  GATHER - link tail of each pocket to head of next
       set first-n, last-n to x-last
       perform varying pocket from first-pocket by 1 until pocket > p-last
           if  first-in-pocket (pocket) not = x-last
           set x-n to first-in-pocket (pocket)
               if  first-n equal to x-last
                   set first-n to x-n    *> first card
               end-if
               if  last-n not equal to x-last
                   set next-n-1 (last-n) to x-n
               end-if
               set last-n to last-in-pocket (pocket)
           end-if
       end-perform
       set next-n-1 (last-n) to x-last  *> last card
*  MOUNT - input is now in the new order
       perform varying x-n from 1 by 1 until x-n = x-last
           set next-n (x-n) to next-n-1 (x-n)
       end-perform
   end-perform

*  If radix-columns = 15, the above is all you need.
*  By itself, it runs faster than the MF sort when radix-columns < 9.
*  The optimized solution sets radix-columns so the radix sort puts
*  data almost in order. It then merges out of order data into place
*  using an insertion sort, which usually works in two iterations --
*  one to sort and one to verify.
*  The total time is 3N + 2N+ = 5N+

*  MERGE out of order cards
*  This is a modified insertion sort which does not
*  require backward links. When finding a step down, it searches
*  forward looking for a step up, then exchanges the big record before
*  the step down with the little record before the step up, then takes
*  a step backward. It cannot work in one pass because the step back
*  cannot find (n - 2) when there are two consecutive steps back.
*  I don't know whether this is a documented algorithm; I just made it up.

   move 1 to swap-count
   perform until swap-count = zero
       move zero to swap-count
       move card (first-n) to sorted-card (1)
       set s-n to 2
       set previous-n-0 to x-last
       set previous-n-1  to first-n
       set x-n to next-n (first-n)
       perform until x-n equal to x-last
           if  sort-key (x-n) less than sort-key (previous-n-1)
               perform until x-n equal to x-last or
                   sort-key (x-n) not less than sort-key (previous-n-1)
                   set previous-n-2 to x-n
                   set x-n to next-n (x-n)
               end-perform
*  exchange two cards (could use three moves)
   call 'CBL_XOR' using sort-key (previous-n-1) sort-key (previous-n-2)
       by value length of sort-key
   call 'CBL_XOR' using sort-key (previous-n-2) sort-key (previous-n-1)
       by value length of sort-key
   call 'CBL_XOR' using sort-key (previous-n-1) sort-key (previous-n-2)
       by value length of sort-key
*              move sort-key (previous-n-1) to sort-key (x-last)
*              move sort-key (previous-n-2) to sort-key (previous-n-1)
*              move sort-key (x-last)       to sort-key (previous-n-2)
*              move high-values to sort-key (x-last)
               set x-n to previous-n-0
               if  x-n equal to x-last
                   set x-n, first-n to previous-n-1
               end-if
               add 1 to swap-count
           end-if
*  Straighten out linked list so program can Search All. Adds 25% to time.
           if  test-number equal to 4 and
               swap-count equal to zero
               move sort-key (x-n) to sorted-key (s-n)
               set s-n up by 1
           end-if
           set previous-n-0 to previous-n-1
           set previous-n-1 to x-n
           set x-n to next-n (x-n)
       end-perform
   end-perform
   if  test-number equal to 4
       move high-values to sorted-key (x-last)
       move sorted-data to test-data
   end-if
   set first-n to 1

   goback
 . end program radix-sort
 . end program Sorts.
```

#### ↳ Re: Sorts

- **From:** LX-i <lxi0007@netscape.net>
- **Date:** 2004-05-07T22:23:26-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<109okljkg6u6pe9@corp.supernews.com>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net>`

```
Robert Wagner wrote:

[snip]

You know, just the other day I was wondering where you had gotten off to 
- good to see you peeking your head in here!  :)
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: Sorts

- **From:** robert.deletethis@wagner.net (Robert Wagner)
- **Date:** 2004-05-08T08:38:42+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<409c8f0c.86610493@news.optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net> <109okljkg6u6pe9@corp.supernews.com>`

```
>You know, just the other day I was wondering where you had gotten off to 
>- good to see you peeking your head in here!  :)

Thanx for the greeting. I moved across the Hudson from the land of Financial
Services in NY to the land of Controlled Substances in NJ. Gotta love the
euphemisms. The former means 'no tangible product' whereas the latter means
'lots of room for slippage with a 90% gross profit percent and support from the
FDA.' Life is good in both places but Jerseyites are more mannerly and
laid-back. Plus, the countryside around Morris County is beautiful. 

I miss the good people of Montgomery. It's a world apart from the NorthEast,
with a grace that Yankees will never understand. Black people who aren't angry,
who drive middle-class cars, wear middle-class clothes, listen to African music
rather than rap or hip-hop, do not have street gangs. In short, they're not
angry about their station because they're not oppressed.

I'm working on a demo of multi-threading in Cobol.. Look for it here, soon.
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: Sorts

- **From:** "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2004-05-08T16:19:19-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<-qadneuSu6JJ0wDdRVn-sA@giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net> <109okljkg6u6pe9@corp.supernews.com>`

```
LX-i wrote:
> Robert Wagner wrote:
>
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> to - good to see you peeking your head in here!  :)

For God's sake, man, don't encourage him!
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Sorts

- **From:** rjones0@hotmail.com (Robert Jones)
- **Date:** 2004-05-09T11:18:10-07:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<6dd8322.0405091018.78e5cd5b@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net> <109okljkg6u6pe9@corp.supernews.com> <-qadneuSu6JJ0wDdRVn-sA@giganews.com>`

```
"JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote in message news:<-qadneuSu6JJ0wDdRVn-sA@giganews.com>...
> LX-i wrote:
> > Robert Wagner wrote:
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> For God's sake, man, don't encourage him!

I for one am glad to welcome him back, and hope we are rather less
abrasive, can separate fact from opinion, especially in matters of
style, and can give and take criticism more gently and willingly.

Robert
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Sorts

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2004-05-09T16:49:52-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<qZWdnYAbysngOgPdRVn-jA@giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net> <109okljkg6u6pe9@corp.supernews.com> <-qadneuSu6JJ0wDdRVn-sA@giganews.com> <6dd8322.0405091018.78e5cd5b@posting.google.com>`

```
Robert Jones wrote:
> "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote in message
> news:<-qadneuSu6JJ0wDdRVn-sA@giganews.com>...
…[13 more quoted lines elided]…
> style, and can give and take criticism more gently and willingly.

For God's sake, man, don't encourage him!
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Sorts

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** rjones0@hotmail.com (Robert Jones)
- **Date:** 2004-05-10T10:30:02-07:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<6dd8322.0405100930.14998e2f@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net> <109okljkg6u6pe9@corp.supernews.com> <-qadneuSu6JJ0wDdRVn-sA@giganews.com> <6dd8322.0405091018.78e5cd5b@posting.google.com> <qZWdnYAbysngOgPdRVn-jA@giganews.com>`

```
Message snipped

> >> For God's sake, man, don't encourage him!
> >
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> For God's sake, man, don't encourage him!

Just as a reminder

Bill Klein wrote earlier

In the very near future, I will be undertaking the position of "requirements
coordinator" for the COBOL (LE & PL/I) project at SHARE, the IBM user group.

There is now an "online" way to vote on SHARE requirements which can
"encourage" sites that ARE members of SHARE and are interested in COBOL
(even if they don't usually send a "COBOL or LE" representative to SHARE) to
participate in the prioritizing of future IBM enhancements.

I am interested in getting (starting) a *personal* (for me only) email list
of those of "you" who are employees of IBM sites that belong to SHARE *and*
are interested in COBOL, LE (or PL/I) issues - or know of the "responsible"
person in your shop who would be interested in such.

If you would LIKE to be on this list, please send me a PRIVATE email (don't
use reply) to the address below.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Sorts

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2004-05-11T07:56:29-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<UPqdnf9wQcPqUD3dRVn-jg@giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net> <109okljkg6u6pe9@corp.supernews.com> <-qadneuSu6JJ0wDdRVn-sA@giganews.com> <6dd8322.0405091018.78e5cd5b@posting.google.com> <qZWdnYAbysngOgPdRVn-jA@giganews.com> <6dd8322.0405100930.14998e2f@posting.google.com>`

```
Robert Jones wrote:
> Message snipped
>
…[14 more quoted lines elided]…
> SHARE, the IBM user group.

[...]

Yes, I, too, wonder if the U.S. will ever completely adopt the Metric
system. But what really keeps me awake nights is why have we never heard of
cases of "Spontaneous Animal Combusion?"

Migrating ducks falling from the sky like Bomber Command casualties over
Berlin. Earthworms going "poof" underfoot. Nothing but ashes in little
Fluffy's bed! Explosions in the midsts of a buffalo stampede. And if this
happened to, say, a termite, might not the house burn down?

Thank God there's probably no chance of this happening to DEAD animals(?!),
else there would be a new meaning to "heartburn." Nevertheless, it's
worrisome.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Sorts

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** "William M. Klein" <wmklein@nospam.netcom.com>
- **Date:** 2004-05-11T21:22:09+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<5uboc.16578$Hs1.7743@newsread2.news.pas.earthlink.net>`
- **References:** `<409420e7.162904098@news.optonline.net> <109okljkg6u6pe9@corp.supernews.com> <-qadneuSu6JJ0wDdRVn-sA@giganews.com> <6dd8322.0405091018.78e5cd5b@posting.google.com> <qZWdnYAbysngOgPdRVn-jA@giganews.com> <6dd8322.0405100930.14998e2f@posting.google.com> <UPqdnf9wQcPqUD3dRVn-jg@giganews.com>`

```
Glad to know that I wasn't the only one "curious" as to what the relevance was
of quoting that post from me.  I know Robert Jones, and I assume he either
quoted the wrong post or replied to the wrong note.  I didn't think it was worth
"following up on".
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
