[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# COBOL/JCL

_11 messages · 11 participants · 2000-07_

**Topics:** [`Mainframe, z/OS, JCL, CICS`](../topics.md#mainframe)

---

### COBOL/JCL

- **From:** ddgtaylor@aol.com (DDgtaylor)
- **Date:** 2000-07-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com>`

```
Does anyone know how start JCL from a cobol program.
I am writing a program that creates JCL script, i then want the program to run
the JCL statements.

If poss please reply to derrick_tay@hotmail.com

Many Thanks
Derrick
```

#### ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** theodp@aol.com (Theo DP)
- **Date:** 2000-07-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20000702173358.06332.00000063@ng-da1.aol.com>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com>`

```
>Subject: COBOL/JCL
>From: ddgtaylor@aol.com  (DDgtaylor)
…[12 more quoted lines elided]…
>

Very easy...

Just write your JCL statements to a DDNAME that's allocated to an internal
reader and they'll be submitted automatically, e.g.,

//ddname DD SYSOUT=(*,INTRDR)
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** Daniel Jacot <daniel.jacot@winterthur.ch>
- **Date:** 2000-07-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8jq13c$dtk$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com> <20000702173358.06332.00000063@ng-da1.aol.com>`

```
In article <20000702173358.06332.00000063@ng-da1.aol.com>,
  theodp@aol.com (Theo DP) wrote:
> >Subject: COBOL/JCL
> >From: ddgtaylor@aol.com  (DDgtaylor)
…[19 more quoted lines elided]…
>

Correct, just a little remark: You might need to set the SYSOUT class
explicitely to A: SYSOUT=(A,INTRDR).
And you must CLOSE the file. And you must add the delimiter // at the
end of the job stream (ISPF does this, too).
```

#### ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** joarmc@SWBELL.NET (John McKown)
- **Date:** 2000-07-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<slrn8lve1t.utc.joarmc@linux2.johnmckown.net>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com>`

```
On 02 Jul 2000 19:22:49 GMT, DDgtaylor <ddgtaylor@aol.com> wrote:
>Does anyone know how start JCL from a cobol program.
>I am writing a program that creates JCL script, i then want the program to run
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
>

Assuming that by JCL you mean IBM's "Job Control Language" and that you're 
speaking on OS/390 (MVS), then the answer is that you cannot really do this
directly. What you can do is create a "normal" file defination in your program
which has 80 byte records defined. You use normal WRITE commands to create the
JCL images to this file. This JCL which runs the step which runs this program
would have a DD statement which is a special form of SYSOUT called an "Internal
Reader". Basically the DD statement would look something like:

//DDNAME DD SYSOUT=(*,INTRDR)

You would need to create a complete JOB with the JOB statement and everything.
After you have CLOSEd the file in your COBOL program, the JOB you just created
would be put on the input queue and run later (maybe immediately, maybe not).
There would not really be any connection between your program and this other
job. They would be independant. Well, the submitted job could be written to
require a file that is created by your program. But if it did, then the second
job would probably get a "dataset in use" message and "hang" until this job
finished.

If what you wanted to do was to create the JCL for another job and have this
program wait for it to finish executing and then continue (possibly reading
file created by the new job), then this is really not possible. There are some
very strange things that you could try, but to be honest, I'm not really up
to explaining how to do it. You program could create a TSO CLIST (or REXX
exec) and then invoke TSO to run it, but I'm really hazy on exactly how to
do this.

I would sincerely suggest that you try to figure out another way to do what
you want (unless the independant JOB idea is OK, that's simple.)

John
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** "William M. Klein" <wmklein@nospam.ix.netcom.com>
- **Date:** 2000-07-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8jop39$2mo$1@nntp9.atl.mindspring.net>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com> <slrn8lve1t.utc.joarmc@linux2.johnmckown.net>`

```

"John McKown" <joarmc@SWBELL.NET> wrote in message
   <snip>
> Well, the submitted job could be written to
> require a file that is created by your program. But if it did, then the
second
> job would probably get a "dataset in use" message and "hang" until this job
> finished.
>

I have never used them, but wouldn't "batch pipes" solve this issue?
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-07-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39608C9D.66D579B9@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com> <slrn8lve1t.utc.joarmc@linux2.johnmckown.net> <8jop39$2mo$1@nntp9.atl.mindspring.net>`

```
"William M. Klein" wrote:
> 
> "John McKown" <joarmc@SWBELL.NET> wrote in message
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> 

Free=close is typically the easiest answer to this one.  I have used
this effectively to split large processing intensive files up into
segments to do some minor processing and transmissions of each segment
as I have finished each one.

Thanks
Ken Foskey
http://www.zipworld.com.au/~waratah/

For fast secure document delivery on the Net
http://www.themailxchange.com.au/
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-07-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<o7S75.11068$HD6.293628@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com> <slrn8lve1t.utc.joarmc@linux2.johnmckown.net> <8jop39$2mo$1@nntp9.atl.mindspring.net>`

```
In article <8jop39$2mo$1@nntp9.atl.mindspring.net>,
William M. Klein <wmklein@nospam.ix.netcom.com> wrote:
>
>"John McKown" <joarmc@SWBELL.NET> wrote in message
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
>I have never used them, but wouldn't "batch pipes" solve this issue?

[dialect humor alert!]

[dialect humor follows... those who are offended by such things might do
best to move along!]

[you hve been warned!]

Oooch, laddie, ye're a fine one ta be talkin' aboot th' pipes... er ye be
a-wearin' th' Tartan o' th' Clan Klein, tew?

DD
```

#### ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** "Gary Moran" <mvs.sig@OOPSbtinternet.com>
- **Date:** 2000-07-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8jog07$sqk$1@plutonium.btinternet.com>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com>`

```

"DDgtaylor" <ddgtaylor@aol.com> wrote in message
news:20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com...
> Does anyone know how start JCL from a cobol program.
> I am writing a program that creates JCL script, i then want the
program to run
> the JCL statements.
>
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> Derrick

Submit <filename>? I assume ur in MVS....
but of course you could be running cobol code on PC, then FTPing JCL
deck....
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** "mangogwr" <mangogwr@bellsouth.net>
- **Date:** 2000-07-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8TS75.2074$hm1.98851@news4.mia>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com> <8jog07$sqk$1@plutonium.btinternet.com>`

```
Bill, you're correct, 'Batch Pipes' COULD be the solution here if
it fits.

Sometimes tho', what really is needed is to have a program / job when
it reaches some decision point, Start of another Job to do something
unrelated to the current data.

Here, for the Edification of those who haven't downloaded the IBM MVS/OS-390
manuals (or copies the disks from work!) is the intro from the manual:
========================================================
1.0 Introduction to BatchPipes
BatchPipes/MVS offers a way to connect jobs so that data from one job can
move through processor
storage to another job without going to DASD or tape.  It addresses a
growing problem that faces
installations with batch workloads: insufficient time to complete that work.
Given a batch jobstream with a
data flow of certain characteristics, BatchPipes can dramatically shorten
the elapsed time of the jobstream.
The jobs can run faster and process larger volumes of data in the available
batch window; your processors
are freed to run more work -- perhaps extending the period of time that
interactive applications are available
or supporting your company's work in another time zone.  In short, you might
get more work from your
processors.

BatchPipes, running on MVS/ESA (1):

   Allows two or more jobs that formerly ran serially to run concurrently.

   Reduces the number of physical I/O operations by transferring data
through processor storage rather
    than transferring data to and from DASD or tape

   May reduce tape mounts and use of DASD.


What difference does parallel processing make to my batch workload?  Large
tightly-coupled
processing systems running with MVS can have many jobs in various stages of
processing at one time.
Batch applications have not traditionally taken advantage of this multiple
processing capability. Rather, they
often consist of multiple jobs that run one after another. With BatchPipes,
the processor can run two or
more jobs in a jobstream at one time.  Jobs that once ran sequentially can
now run in parallel because data
records or blocks are available to the next job immediately after they are
written.  That is, the whole
sequential file does not have to be written and then closed before the next
job can access the file.

What difference does keeping data in the processor make to my batch
workload?  When data
moves from one job to another through processor storage, the transfers take
place in microseconds as
compared to the milliseconds required to transfer data to and from tape or
DASD.  Keeping data in processor
storage reduces the number of physical I/O operations, causes less I/O
contention, and frees the device
that holds the intermediate data set.  An additional benefit of transferring
data through processor storage is
a reduction in the mounting and managing of tapes for applications using
BatchPipes.

 (1) MVS/ESA is a trademark of the International Business Machines
Corporation.

Subtopics
1.1 An Example of How BatchPipes Changes Traditional Batch Processing
1.2 Resources Required by Jobs Using BatchPipes
1.3 Choosing Candidates for BatchPipes
1.4 Comparing BatchPipes with Other IBM Solutions for Batch Applications
1.5 Preparing to Use BatchPipes
1.6 Running BatchPipes
1.7 Managing the Workload in the BatchPipes Environment
1.8 Running BatchPipes with Multiple Copies of a Job
1.9 Using a Filter to Make Two Copies of a Data Set
1.10 Using BatchPipeWorks with BatchPipes Jobs
1.11 Customer Application Using BatchPipes
1.12 Appendix: Overview of BatchPipes Functions

********************************************************************
1.1 An Example of How BatchPipes Changes Traditional Batch Processing

Most installations have batch jobstreams that use intermediate data sets
such that output from one process
(a job or step) is written to DASD or tape.  This data is then available to
be read by a second process
immediately after the data set closes or the first process ends.  Figure 1
shows the traditional job-to-job data
flow:


Figure 1. Two Jobs in a Traditional Batch Jobstream

In the figure, Job1 writes data to an I/O device.  When all the records have
been written and the data set is closed, Job2 starts.  Job2 reads the data
from the device.  After Job2 finishes processing all the records, the data
set is no longer required and can be deleted.  In effect, the transfer of
data from one job to the other is at a data set level.

Compare the processing of the two jobs in Figure 1 with Figure 2, which
shows those same two jobs using BatchPipes.  Notice that external storage
devices are absent, replaced by a processor storage buffer holding a small
portion of the intermediate data set.

In Figure 2, Job1, a writer to the processor storage buffer, and Job2 , a
reader from that buffer, run
concurrently.  Job2 can obtain data from the processor storage buffer as
soon as Job1 writes the first
block.  Output from Job1 becomes immediately available as input to Job2.
You can think of the data as
"flowing" from Job1 to Job2.  The processor storage buffer is called, in
BatchPipes terms, a pipe, through
which data flows, always in the same direction, from a writer job to a
reader job. Writer-->pipe-->reader are
known as a pipeline.

To understand the elapsed time savings, compare timelines of traditional
job-to-job processing and
BatchPipes job-to-job processing.  The timeline for the traditional
processing of Job1 and Job2 might look like
this:


     <------Job1----><--------------Job2------->
     ___________________________________________
     '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '
     0     2     4     6     8    10     12    14


Figure 3. Timeline Showing a Traditional Two-Job Jobstream

With BatchPipes, the two jobs can run concurrently in less time than Job2
(the longer-running job) formerly
needed.  Elapsed time savings come from concurrent processing of the two
jobs, from elimination of I/O
wait times (time intervals during which a job waits for I/O transfers to and
from DASD or tape), and from
reduction of I/O transfer times between jobs.

The timeline for the two jobs using BatchPipes might look like this:


     <-------Job1----------->
      <-----------Job2------->
     ___________________________________________
     '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '  '
     0     2     4     6     8    10     12    14


Figure 4. Timeline Showing Two Jobs Using BatchPipes

Running the two jobs concurrently demonstrates a form of parallelism, the
simultaneous processing of
many tasks (or jobs) within one application. Figure 4 shows two jobs running
concurrently in a
multiprocessing environment.  Without BatchPipes, the jobs would not run
concurrently.

 %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

BatchPipes is one of several software and hardware functions that IBM offers
to improve the elapsed time
of batch jobs that run on MVS.  You might be familiar with:

   VIO to expanded storage
   Hiperbatch
   Batch Local Shared Resources (BLSR)
   Sequential Data Striping.

To answer questions you might have about how BatchPipes compares with these
functions, this section
looks at whether these functions benefit the same type of batch jobstream
that BatchPipes benefits, a
jobstream where:

   The jobs use sequential QSAM, BSAM, or GSAM.
   Output from one job or jobstep is input to a second job or jobstep
   The data set is intermediate. (Note that BatchPipes provides several
ways to customize the data flow in  case you need a permanent copy of data
for backup or recovery.)

Both VIO to expanded storage and BatchPipes target similar batch
environments.  They eliminate the I/O wait times that occur when a job waits
for I/O transfers to and from storage devices; they handle data that is
intermediate.  VIO keeps all the data in expanded or auxiliary storage from
the time the data is created until  the entire data set is deleted;
BatchPipes keeps only a small portion of the data set in virtual storage at
one time.  Therefore, there is no limit to the amount of data that
BatchPipes can transfer.

VIO supports both random and sequential I/O; BatchPipes supports only
sequential I/O.

VIO improves performance for jobs that use data sets that are relatively
small.  If the job requires large
quantities of data (for example millions of records), VIO is not suitable
because expanded or auxiliary
storage will be exhausted, or because the storage will be paged (eventually
to DASD) and performance
could actually decrease.

Because BatchPipes allows writer and reader jobs to run concurrently,
elapsed times generally improve
more with BatchPipes than with VIO.

VIO requires the use of expanded storage; BatchPipes does not.

Hiperbatch targets a different type of batch application from BatchPipes.
With hiperbatch, the target
application has many readers simultaneously accessing data that one writer
job created.  The shared data all resides in processor storage and on DASD;
the data persists after being read, subject only to reuse of hiperbatch
buffers by other hiperbatch activity. In contrast, BatchPipes holds very
little of the data in processor storage at one time, and the output from the
writer job is temporary.

With hiperbatch, readers run simultaneously with each other, but not with
the writer; with BatchPipes, writer and reader jobs run simultaneously.

With hiperbatch, there's always the chance the reader might read from DASD,
rather than processor
storage; with BatchPipes, the reader always finds the data in processor
storage.

BLSR also targets a different type of batch application than BatchPipes.
With BLSR, the target application uses direct or keyed VSAM in a
non-sequential access pattern.  In contrast, BatchPipes supports QSAM and
BSAM in a completely sequential access pattern. Further, for data integrity
reasons, BLSR writers and readers must run serially.  BatchPipes writers and
readers must run concurrently.

BLSR is not generally suitable for sequential access patterns (because the
performance could actually
decrease) and BatchPipes is not suitable for random access patterns.

Sequential Data Striping benefits batch jobs that spend much of their
elapsed time sequentially reading or writing large DASD files.  When a data
set is created, Sequential Data Striping allocates the data set on as many
as 16 volumes.  Jobs that later read the data have their read requests
processed in parallel from those devices;  Sequential Data Striping
automatically "reassembles" the records as the data is transferred from
DASD.  Once all the records are reassembled, Sequential Data Striping
returns control to the job.

With Sequential Data Striping, the data is kept on DASD; with BatchPipes,
the data temporarily resides in processor storage.  Sequential Data Striping
reduces I/O operations and I/O wait times; BatchPipes eliminates them.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
1.5 Preparing to Use BatchPipes

BatchPipes is not part of MVS itself; it is a subsystem, running as a
started task under MVS.  Installing,
initializing, and starting BatchPipes is similar to getting any
SMP-installed program product up and running.  For your initial release of
BatchPipes, a system programmer installs the BatchPipes code and initializes
one or more instances of BatchPipes subsystems (using parmlib members to
define the subsystem to MVS), then IPLs MVS.  With proper planning,
subsequent installations of BatchPipes do not require an IPL.

Once BatchPipes is installed and candidate jobs examined and chosen, using
BatchPipes with your jobs requires JCL and scheduling changes.

Data Set DD Statement Changes:  The DD statements that describe the output
data from the writer and
the input data to the reader must tell the system to use BatchPipes, rather
than the I/O subsystem, to
transfer the data. The specific parameter on the DD statement is:

    SUBSYS=subsysname


where subsysname identifies the BatchPipes subsystem that is to control
the data flow.

For example, to tell the system that the writer of the data set named
ACCTRD.TEMP is using the BatchPipes subsystem named BP01 to control its I/O
requests, the DD statement looks like the following:

  file://SYSUT2 DD DSN=ACCTRD.TEMP,SUBSYS=BP01,
  //          LRECL=80,RECFM=FB

The reader job would have a similar JCL specification, including the
SUBSYS=BP01 parameter.

Scheduling Changes:  You might need to change the scheduling of the jobs so
that they can run
concurrently.  This might mean:

   Changing input to job scheduling packages that you are using, such as
Operations, Planning &
    Control/ESA (OPC/ESA)
   Evaluating the use of initiators to reflect the added job or jobs that
are competing for the processor's use.

Application JCL Changes:  BatchPipes transfers data from one job to another.
To use BatchPipes to
transfer data between two or more jobsteps in the same job, JCL statements
must be changed to turn the jobsteps into separate jobs.

Another JCL change that might increase the benefit of BatchPipes is
described in "Running BatchPipes with Multiple Copies of a Job" in topic
1.8.

Application Code Changes:  BatchPipes requires no changes to applications'
normal I/O declares,
macros, or routines; it intercepts application requests for I/O and passes
the data through processor
storage.
========================================================


PLEASE ALSO, note, that many sites have an 'EXIT' that reads all the CONSOLE
messages
looking for a specific STRING at the beginning.  Once that string is found,
the exit executes
a predefined job or takes a specific action in the message.  That is how
many places a CICS
transaction or program can 'execute' a batch process.  There is another
method under CICS 4 and
later, but it doesn't apply here anyways.


Gary Moran <mvs.sig@OOPSbtinternet.com> wrote in message
news:8jog07$sqk$1@plutonium.btinternet.com...
>
> "DDgtaylor" <ddgtaylor@aol.com> wrote in message
…[16 more quoted lines elided]…
>
```

#### ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** Jonathan Nash <jnash@qis.net>
- **Date:** 2000-07-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<Pine.GSO.3.96.1000703083056.23047D-100000@eclipse>`
- **References:** `<20000702152249.01226.00001086@ng-cd1.aol.com>`

```
Can't you call TSO SUBMIT from a COBOL program ?
I have seen code examples which call TSO ALLOCATE so 
why not TSO SUBMIT ?

|Does anyone know how start JCL from a cobol program.
|I am writing a program that creates JCL script, 
|i then want the program to run
|the JCL statements.
|
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: COBOL/JCL

- **From:** gsryu3@aol.com (Gsryu3)
- **Date:** 2000-07-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20000705123719.17062.00000035@ng-fp1.aol.com>`
- **References:** `<Pine.GSO.3.96.1000703083056.23047D-100000@eclipse>`

```
I've always used the internal reader for this type of job. I'd like to see that
code?
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
