[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_50 messages · 13 participants · 2003-11 → 2003-12_

---

### Believe me, you WANT to read this!

- **From:** "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T04:56:38-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com>`

```
An associate just sent me the email below.
----------------------------------------------------------------
    I was looking at some of the case studies on Microsoft's web site and ran across the following one.  Note that they abandoned
Java and went back to salvaging their COBOL.  I hope the industry soon realizes that this is the most economical upgrade solution
before everyone jumps off the cliff blindly following the leader.  I found this under the Public and Nonprofit Sector link on the
following web page: http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/productinfo/casestudies/industry/

Superior Court Stanislaus County System
Superior Court of California, Stanislaus County System Court Saves over $700,000 Annually by Migrating Its Legacy System to a Modern
Computing Environment
The Superior Court Stanislaus County System needed to update its legacy Case Management system. Nine months into efforts to
implement a Java-based solution, they halted the project because of scalability problems and high development costs. The Court
adopted a strategy that included use of Microsoft� Visual Studio� .NET and the Microsoft .NET Framework to migrate its legacy system
off the mainframe and into a modern environment. The new system runs on Microsoft Windows� 2000 Advanced Server operating system and
offers a lower cost of ownership, greater extensibility and improved performance. Working with Fujitsu Software Corporation's
NetCOBOL for .NET (language add-in software for the .NET Framework), the new application required just two and a half months to
build, test and implement.
----------------------------------------------------------------
Can we spell "C-O-B-O-L i-s b-e-t-t-e-r, d-u-m-m-i-e-s?" :-)
```

#### ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T10:17:23-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com>`

```
"Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote 

>     I was looking at some of the case studies on Microsoft's web site and ran across the following one.  Note that they abandoned
> Java 

No. Microsoft did not 'abandon' Java.  They decided they could not
control it, as they have with other languages they supported, and so
they want to destroy it and replace it with their own version of it
C#.

> and went back to salvaging their COBOL.  

No, they haven't salvaged 'their Cobol'.  While MS did write a Cobol
back in the CP/M days which they converted to MS-DOS, they used a
version of MF Cobol while it suited them and now promote Fujitsu Cobol
while it suits them.

> I hope the industry soon realizes that this is the most economical upgrade solution
> before everyone jumps off the cliff blindly following the leader.  

All businesses will have highly selective 'news' items that are
slanted as much as possible to one point of view - ie buy _my_
solution.  Do you really believe marketing hype ?
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

- **From:** "James J. Gavan" <jjgavan@shaw.ca>
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T19:12:43+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com>`

```


Richard wrote:

> "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote
>
…[20 more quoted lines elided]…
> solution.  Do you really believe marketing hype ?

Judson,

Richard is right on the button. Some see his comments as somewhat cynical, but they ARE factual.

I don't know whether you ever used the Microsoft COBOL - wasn't bad. Although before Internet days not too easy to get Tech support,
although it existed. At one stage Micro Focus was cozily in bed with MS - the last two versions of MS COBOL were the re-badged MF COBOL
(DOS text) that you are familiar with. The only difference being that the compiler was wrapped in their own Programmer's Workbench for
compiling, linking and help files, coupled with the Editor which I still use. (Richard thinks I'm a masochist for still using that
<G>).

There was one significant difference as I switched - the MS manuals were simply worded; switch to M/F and the manuals were a knock-off
of the legalese in the Standard.

I don't think the Merant fiasco helped any. To get the .Net to work, MS had to show that they supported ALL languages.  Pure guess, but
perhaps perceiving M/F as a 'weak partner' they looked towards Fujitsu - big conglomerate, and 'enticed' them to get into .Net.
Meanwhile of course, to compete, M/F as an add-on to Net Express V 4.0 (if you upgrade - $$$$$), offers features allowing you to use
.Net.

Continuously upgrading for small/single developers is a no go unless you are fortunate enough "to be in the right place and the right
time" - i.e., a healthy customer base you can solicit. Meanwhile medium sized software houses can see the advantage of switching to
.Net, (they take a deep breath and pay up), and in the process, in one case using N/E, somebody has already mentioned using C#
features, rather than COBOL. M/S will of course be delighted - they've hung up the sticky fly paper, and are just waiting for the flies
to get attached.

Jimmy, Calgary AB
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

- **From:** "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T15:52:01-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca>`

```
Sorry, but you fellows are misreading the post. It DOES NOT say that
Microsoft is 'abandoning Java' or 'salvaging their COBOL'. It says
that about the Superior Court of California, the 'they' in the post. My
friend simply found the info on the Microsoft web site. Read it again
*carefully* this time, and you should see this clearly. Richard likes
to occasionally jump down people's throats without bothering to check
what was really said, then refuses to admit the mistake. Makes him
look stupid, like now (surprise me Richard, by admitting it this time :).
I'm surprised you did not catch that, Jimmy.

The post was not about Microsoft, or advertising hype about Fujitsu
COBOL or .NET. The point is that there are people out there who, after
wasting tons of money on VB, Java, et al, finally realize that COBOL
is highly efficient and productive, and return to it. I have newspaper
articles on my desk that report other similar incidents. I should think
you COBOL people would be pleased about that. I am. I'm tired of
watching clients blow millions that might as well have been piled up
and set on fire. Pressure is building right now in several departments
of one of my major clients to confront upper management with the
fact that they have spent over 4 years and over $20 million and have
yet to replace ONE SINGLE mainframe application, and they're not
even remotely close to doing so. More than that, the organization has
yet to receive a single benefit from all that money. If that's not failure,
I wouldn't know how to define failure.

VB, Java, etc. have their place, but building large business applications
is not it. Parts of one sure, but not the whole thing. Too unstable, too
fragile, too proprietary (VB), too expensive, too time consuming, and
too much hassle. Why do you think there is a 45%+ failure rate for new
systems these days? Barely more than half of the new systems attempted
actually come up! That factual figure is simply staggering. Who of you
old timers ever saw such a thing with COBOL based systems? I'll bet
you there won't be a single current non-trivial VB or Java application
that will still be in active use in 20 years. Even 10 years is a very big
stretch. I have a client/server COBOL inventory system that's been
running 16 years, and it has a far better chance of still being in use 20
years from now than the VB/Java stuff being written today.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** "Peter E.C. Dashwood" <dashwood@enternet.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T14:16:48+13:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com>`

```
Sorry this is fairly long.

Judson raised some interesting points that required some detailed argument.

See Below...


"Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote in message
news:20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com...
> Sorry, but you fellows are misreading the post. It DOES NOT say that
> Microsoft is 'abandoning Java' or 'salvaging their COBOL'. It says
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> look stupid, like now (surprise me Richard, by admitting it this time :).

I'm not sure that is fair Judson. Richard is a valued contributor here. My
experience has been that he usually gets it right. While he has a pronounced
anti-MS bias, that is his prerogative, and what he said here seems fair to
me.

> I'm surprised you did not catch that, Jimmy.
>

No comment.

> The post was not about Microsoft, or advertising hype about Fujitsu
> COBOL or .NET. The point is that there are people out there who, after
> wasting tons of money on VB, Java, et al, finally realize that COBOL
> is highly efficient and productive, and return to it.

This is a very interesting point.

Certainly there are companies that ARE wasting tons of money on IT. But that
has ALWAYS been the case.

There are indeed some installations that are reviewing the use of COBOL. (I
know of 2...). "Review" does not mean "Change" in these cases...

The problem is not with the COBOL language per se, it is with the whole
"COBOL think" approach to system development.

(I'm excluding mainframe installations from the following discussion. The
mainframe installations, for the most part, are locked in to what they have.
Only as mainframe vendors see their customer base being eroded by faster,
cheaper, client/server networks is anything likly to change. IBM are betting
on Linux and Java, and they are a major influence on mainframe
installations).

The traditional Waterfall approach to system development, as practised on
COBOL installations for many years, is simply not adequate for modern
client/server, network, and distributed computing requirements.

There was a time when it was enough to open files, read files, process
files, close files, stop run.

Those days (except for the continuing requirement to handle Batch
processing, primarily for volume reporting) are gone.

(It should be noted in passing that the more efficient the updating and
maintenance of the corporate data assets in real time, the less requirement
there is for Batch processing. Finally, Batch processing becomes "Running
high volume reports" and this can be done by utilities without the need for
one-off COBOL programs. For example, the only reason you would need to sort
data, in an ideal world, would be to ensure the reporting sequence.  "Three
way split" type batch updates are obviated by efficient online processing.
The fact that we have seen so much discussion about these ancient (1956!)
techniques here, indicates that there is still some distance to go in some
quarters before the goal of efficient online maintenance is achieved...<G>).

So we should be looking at what will deliver the best online performance.

COBOL is, for the most part, not good at this.

OO COBOL is ideal, because it allows objects to be encapsulated and
distributed around the Network, just like any other OO Language.
Encapsulated objects (components) can be written in OO COBOL (which is well
suited to the task of commercial data processing) and used just like Java
Beans or VB components and deployed instantly on the Web or the desktop.

But, sadly, the COBOL establishment,  (for the most part) not understanding
the needs of the Network or the Internet, has clearly rejected OO COBOL.
(This is changing, as Fortress COBOL is being dragged kicking and screaming
into the 21st Century, simply by the demands of the Market Place, and there
are encouraging signs of people starting to cotton on to why it is important
to change working practices and adapt to the new environment, but in my
opinion, it is too late for COBOL.)

In the meantime, the new breed of programmers have been raised on C++ and
Java. It is easy to poke fun at their lack of knowledge regarding
traditional data processing, that is the bread and butter of every COBOL
programmer, but these guys are smart and hungry AND they understand the
Network. They grew up with it. Object Orientation is deeply ingrained in
them. The languages and scripts they are using are designed around that
concept. Their difficulty is in understanding procedural COBOL.

> I have newspaper
> articles on my desk that report other similar incidents. I should think
> you COBOL people would be pleased about that. I am.

Like many people over the last 15 years, Judson, I have expanded my skill
set. The term "COBOL people" does not apply to me (and many others like me),
any more than "Java people" or "C# people" would apply. I consider myself an
IT professional. I have a full armoury of tools and techniques and I use
whichever is most appropriate to the required task. If that means Java
instead of COBOL, or JavaScript instead of VBScript,  or COBOL instead of C,
then I have no problem with that.

(What I DON'T do is look at every problem from the point of view of a COBOL
solution.)

Said it before (many times <G>), say it again: "The BEST tools for the job."

Sometimes COBOL IS the best tool; sometimes it ISN'T. If I didn't expand my
horizons I wouldn't know, and I'd still be sitting wondering if COBOL was
going to "catch on" again and hoping I could find a job with it.

(I have not made a living from COBOL for many years now, but, ironically, I
am working on a distributed Internet project at the moment, where I am
writing much of the code in COBOL. This is because the major processing
involves DB Access and "data processing" which COBOL excels at. Needless to
say, it is all OO COBOL and utilises DCOM+ and MTS to distribute Client and
Server Components around the Network (in this case, the Internet, via a
portal I wrote in ASP...)).

I LOVE COBOL, have used it most of my working life in IT (38 years coming
up), but I see no point in being a "one language wonder" (whether that
Language is COBOL, C, Java, C#, Perl, Python, or whatever...). The
phrase:"Everything I want to do, I can do in COBOL..." irritates me
intensely. It simply indicates low aspirations and short sightedness.

It staggers me that people who are (for the most part) otherwise very bright
(I'm talking about COBOL Programmers...), just are not prepared to invest a
few extra hours of their own time in furthering their education.

(I put this down to emotional attachment to COBOL; learning something else
is like betraying your lover...<G>)

It isn't difficult. There is an abundance of excellent books available, most
people have access to a computer (and the Network), but it is easier to
insist that COBOL should be used (whether it is appropriate or not), because
that's what we know...)

> I'm tired of
> watching clients blow millions that might as well have been piled up
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> yet to receive a single benefit from all that money. If that's not
failure,
> I wouldn't know how to define failure.
>

I agree that certainly sounds like failure. But you would need to analyse
WHY it has failed. It isn't enough to say: "Well they used these new fangled
languages and they don't understand corporate data processing; if they'd
done it in COBOL they'd be home free..."

The misuse of a $20 million budget is not just down to programmers (in
whatever language). It sounds very much like some severe mis-management,
lack of experience, design, planning, and control. For that kind of money,
they could have bought some proper MANAGEMENT (not just technical)
experience.

> VB, Java, etc. have their place, but building large business applications
> is not it.

Right. That's why they go to Siebel, SAP, and similar corporate solutions.
They already had their fingers burned with COBOL.

> Parts of one sure, but not the whole thing. Too unstable, too
> fragile,

Hmmm...the largest Money processing Internet system in Australasia (backed
by half a dozen major banks and owned by a large American "household name"
corporation), uses Java for its payment Client and Server processing across
secure socket layers and including credit card validation and authorization,
and transferring to merchant accounts. It has been running  in its present
form for 3 years and has 99.997% up time. There has never been a discrepancy
with it. Unstable? Fragile? (I know they use Java because I am currently
interfacing my COBOL to it <G>)


> too proprietary (VB),

It is intended as a Quick Build GUI front ending tool. As such, VB is very
useful. COM components developed in VB are even more useful and I use a
number of them every day. Third party components are a very attractive
option and many of them are written in VB.

> too expensive,

$US100 for something that would've taken at least 6 weeks for ME (not a
junior programmer) to write in COBOL? I don't think so...

> too time consuming,

I have managed several non-COBOL projects. They take no longer than anything
else. In some cases they are much faster than traditional COBOL because the
tools are much more powerful. SQL Server has a visually interfaced tool that
lets you develop processes by dragging and dropping icons. It takes minutes
to do what would take days in COBOL. The first time I had this demoed to me
I was stunned. Couldn't believe it would work <G>. It did.

>and
> too much hassle.

Developing computer systems is ALWAYS a "hassle" for somebody. COBOL is no
exception. (Tried getting DBA approval to add a couple of tables to the
Corporate DB <G>?)


> Why do you think there is a 45%+ failure rate for new
> systems these days? Barely more than half of the new systems attempted
> actually come up! That factual figure is simply staggering.

That "factual figure" needs to have a source, please. Can the same source
show that this is different to what has always been the case? (IT in general
does NOT have a great success rate when it comes to getting major projects
in on time and on budget. One of the reasons I can still make a living is
because my personal track record in this area is way above the norm. I have
been pretty lucky...<G>)

> Who of you
> old timers ever saw such a thing with COBOL based systems?
 Please Sir...Me sir... I saw COBOL projects fail...often. In fact, it was
EXPECTED to be late. The waterfall level  where the overrun occurred was
simply pushed out a bit to accommodate it, then they could claim it came in
on time. (It did, AFTER the time was re-estimated...)

There are a number of factors here that you are conveniently overlooking.

1. The complexity of the COBOL projects in "Oldene Tymes" was nothing like
the complexity of modern Network based systems. Comparing Batch processing
systems to distributed Client Server systems is like comparing army boots to
rollerblades. Where there is a more complex environment, there is more scope
for failure.

Case in point: I recently spent 2 years (initially in my spare time, but
full time since I arived home in April) designing and building a certain Web
Based application. Hundreds of hours testing it, satisfied it worked as
intended. What should have been a 4 day job to install it on an Internet
exposed LAN, took thirty days. (these are "Dashwood Days"...I tend to go to
bed at 3:00am when I am obsessed by something that doesn't work...<G>, and
am on deck again at 8:00...) The frustrating thing was not my code (it all
worked perfectly); it was grappling with the environment which is built on
the shifting sands of MicroSoft, where every machine requires a different
configuration, and machines that purport to have the same version of the OS
and the same installed software, don't, or if they do, they STILL require
specialised attention. I had to burn the midnight oil because nobody could
support us. (To be fair to MS, everything you ever wanted to know is on MSDN
(and a lot more that you DIDN'T want to know <G>)). We finally got it
working but I learned some very hard lessons.

How many "COBOL programmers" had to learn the intimate details of Component
Services, DCOM+, MTS, and TCP/IP? No, in the "Oldene Tymes" mainframe
installations had (and still have) system specialists to shield application
programmers from the eerie interface with system software. It was a softer,
simpler world.

2. The "Good old days" weren't so good. COBOL development had its problems
too.  Even leaving aside the technical problems and the flaws inherent in
the Waterfall development Methodology, there was the friction between the
Business and the IT people, because the business didn't understand IT, and
the IT people viewed the Business as Luddite Troglodytes.

Noticed how, as "computer literacy" has increased we see less and less of
this now?

(In fact, it's swinging a bit too far the other way, with Users very happy
to bypass IT and implement their OWN solutions using spreadsheets and
Databases...IT are desperate to retain control, and so they implement
practices and procedures that simply slow the whole Corporate system down
and make it less useful.

Last year I had people from my team coming to me on a daily basis
complaining about how certain user departments were eroding IT credibility
by producing their own reports and demanding feeds from IT in order to do
so. It was a delicate situation (I'm not real good with those...<G>) which
we finally resolved by sitting round a table and reviewing what was actually
required by the Business, rather than what they had traditionally been
given. I then ensured that my people got  to work directly with them and in
the end, everyone was happy. The initial response from my own guys had been
"Stop them!".)

> I'll bet
> you there won't be a single current non-trivial VB or Java application
> that will still be in active use in 20 years.

I'll bet you there won't be a single current non-trivial COBOL application
that will still be in active use in 15 years...

>Even 10 years is a very big
> stretch. I have a client/server COBOL inventory system that's been
> running 16 years, and it has a far better chance of still being in use 20
> years from now than the VB/Java stuff being written today.

"Past history is no guarantee of future performance. Consult your investment
advisor."

SUMMARISING :

1. If you use statistics you must quote the Source. (If you quote statistics
that are blatantly ridiculous, don't be surprised if your Source comes in
for some stick <G>)

2. Advocating the use of COBOL as a panacaea for Corporate IT is simply
short sighted and unprofessional. It worked (up to a point) in the past,
when the World was a simpler place. That isn't true anymore. Get over it.
(There IS still a place for traditional COBOL in Batch Processing, but it is
arguable that there will ALWAYS be a requirement for this.)

3. OO COBOL has a future, especially insofar as it can be used to create
components. The opportunity here was recognised by the major COBOL vendors
who have done a brilliant job in providing compilers to support it. It was
lost on the general COBOL community who saw/(see?) it as unnecessary and
complex. (It isn't...either of those...). There is a question mark over how
long the vendors will support a product that hasn't had the uptake by the
marketplace that it deserves. If we lose it, it will be our own fault, and
will mark the death of COBOL.

3. If you intend to be a career IT programmer, expand your skill set. COBOL
alone will simply not cut it. This is a limited career path anyway. If you
are under 30, start studying Accountancy or Corporate Law. (Know programming
and IT but don't rely on it to feed you and yours. The boom is over.
"Computer programming was a phenomenon of the latter half of the 20th
Century...").

Pete.




> -- 
> Judson McClendon      judmc@sunvaley0.com (remove zero)
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> "James J. Gavan" <jjgavan@shaw.ca> wrote in message
news:3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca...
> >
> >
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> > > >     I was looking at some of the case studies on Microsoft's web
site and ran across the following one.  Note that they
> abandoned
> > > > Java
…[13 more quoted lines elided]…
> > > > I hope the industry soon realizes that this is the most economical
upgrade solution
> > > > before everyone jumps off the cliff blindly following the leader.
> > >
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> > Richard is right on the button. Some see his comments as somewhat
cynical, but they ARE factual.
> >
> > I don't know whether you ever used the Microsoft COBOL - wasn't bad.
Although before Internet days not too easy to get Tech
> support,
> > although it existed. At one stage Micro Focus was cozily in bed with
MS - the last two versions of MS COBOL were the re-badged MF
> COBOL
> > (DOS text) that you are familiar with. The only difference being that
the compiler was wrapped in their own Programmer's Workbench
> for
> > compiling, linking and help files, coupled with the Editor which I still
use. (Richard thinks I'm a masochist for still using that
> > <G>).
> >
> > There was one significant difference as I switched - the MS manuals were
simply worded; switch to M/F and the manuals were a
> knock-off
> > of the legalese in the Standard.
> >
> > I don't think the Merant fiasco helped any. To get the .Net to work, MS
had to show that they supported ALL languages.  Pure
> guess, but
> > perhaps perceiving M/F as a 'weak partner' they looked towards Fujitsu -
big conglomerate, and 'enticed' them to get into .Net.
> > Meanwhile of course, to compete, M/F as an add-on to Net Express V 4.0
(if you upgrade - $$$$$), offers features allowing you to
> use
> > .Net.
> >
> > Continuously upgrading for small/single developers is a no go unless you
are fortunate enough "to be in the right place and the
> right
> > time" - i.e., a healthy customer base you can solicit. Meanwhile medium
sized software houses can see the advantage of switching
> to
> > .Net, (they take a deep breath and pay up), and in the process, in one
case using N/E, somebody has already mentioned using C#
> > features, rather than COBOL. M/S will of course be delighted - they've
hung up the sticky fly paper, and are just waiting for the
> flies
> > to get attached.
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
>
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T22:20:58-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<Weidnb08Sde2t1miU-KYiQ@giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com>`

```
Peter E.C. Dashwood wrote:
>>
> The problem is not with the COBOL language per se, it is with the
> whole "COBOL think" approach to system development.

[...]
>
> Sometimes COBOL IS the best tool; sometimes it ISN'T. If I didn't
> expand my horizons I wouldn't know, and I'd still be sitting
> wondering if COBOL was going to "catch on" again and hoping I could
> find a job with it.
[...]

>
> It staggers me that people who are (for the most part) otherwise very
> bright (I'm talking about COBOL Programmers...), just are not
> prepared to invest a few extra hours of their own time in furthering
> their education.

You're right, of course. Sometimes COBOL is NOT the best tool for the job.
It's not the best tool for changing spark plugs. It's not the best tool for
removing an appendix. It's not the best tool for finding truffles. But it is
the best tool for the kind of jobs I want to do.

I teach computing science at the University level. While not an expert (or
even economically competent), I do have a passing knowledge of other
languages. Most, I simply don't like.

If someone wants to be equally at home selling newspaper subscriptions
door-to-door and smoothing concrete and driving a bus, they should live
their dream. Me, I like writing programs in COBOL. If I can't write it in
COBOL, I'll hire someone else to do it. I don't want to become an expert in
another language or technique. I'm happy and hidebound.

There are those who look askance at folks like me; "Don't want to learn
anything new!" they cry. But, hey, I'm doing what I enjoy and get paid bags
of money to do it. As for those who insist on being able to do everything
(with the right tool, of course), I'm still waiting for them to pull their
own teeth.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "Peter E.C. Dashwood" <dashwood@enternet.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T20:23:32+13:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3fc4552d_3@news.athenanews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <Weidnb08Sde2t1miU-KYiQ@giganews.com>`

```

"JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote in message
news:Weidnb08Sde2t1miU-KYiQ@giganews.com...
> Peter E.C. Dashwood wrote:
> >>
…[18 more quoted lines elided]…
> It's not the best tool for changing spark plugs. It's not the best tool
for
> removing an appendix. It's not the best tool for finding truffles. But it
is
> the best tool for the kind of jobs I want to do.

Hahaha!
And you know that because?..that's what you know.
To a man with a hammer, everything is a nail...

I would not discount the fact that what YOU want to do, may indeed be best
served by COBOL <G>.

That does not make it wrong for other people to broaden their horizons.

>
> I teach computing science at the University level. While not an expert (or
> even economically competent),

Huh???!!!!!  NOW I start to understand why the industry is in decline <G>...

> I do have a passing knowledge of other
> languages. Most, I simply don't like.
>

Would you pass this personal prejudice on to your students?

> If someone wants to be equally at home selling newspaper subscriptions
> door-to-door and smoothing concrete and driving a bus, they should live
> their dream. Me, I like writing programs in COBOL.

Sadly, that won't get the paper delivered, the bus from A to B, or the
driveway levelled...

> If I can't write it in
> COBOL, I'll hire someone else to do it. I don't want to become an expert
in
> another language or technique. I'm happy and hidebound.
>

Good. I have no problem with that.

> There are those who look askance at folks like me; "Don't want to learn
> anything new!" they cry.

Not me. What you describe is fine for you. You are not trying to make a
career in computer programming. (No need to if you are sitting on large
quantities of MS shares...<G>. Well, not this year anyway...<G>)

> But, hey, I'm doing what I enjoy and get paid bags
> of money to do it. As for those who insist on being able to do everything
> (with the right tool, of course), I'm still waiting for them to pull their
> own teeth.
>

For the same reason my dentist doesn't just use a pair of pliers (he has an
exceptional range of tools and State-of-the Art computer technology), I try
to ensure that I have the range of tools to do the best possible job within
my range of expertise. That certainly includes COBOL (for the moment).
However, the world moves on. The use of computers moves on. The WAY in which
we interact with and use computers moves on...

My dentist is as far removed from Doc Halliday, as I am from the inventor of
the abacus.

And I enjoy what I do, just the same way you do.

Pete.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** Joe Zitzelberger <joe_zitzelberger@nospam.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T08:28:59-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com>`

```
In article <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com>,
 "Peter E.C. Dashwood" <dashwood@enternet.co.nz> wrote:


> But, sadly, the COBOL establishment,  (for the most part) not understanding
> the needs of the Network or the Internet, has clearly rejected OO COBOL.
…[12 more quoted lines elided]…
> concept. Their difficulty is in understanding procedural COBOL.

Hmmm, I'm not sure I can agree with you here.  I have seen plenty of 
Java and C++ types that refused to actually learn new and different 
things.  I have come to the conclusion that some large majority (+90% 
maybe) of technical people don't really care to understand why or how 
new things operate -- they are happy with what they learned in school 
and will never expand that knowledge unless forced.  

Many of the Java and C++ folks who learned OO in school will find 
themselves in a similar position in coming decades as some Cobol 
programmers do today -- obsolete by their own lack of self-training.

(And I'm not complaining -- there will always be a job for someone, like 
me, that doesn't mind reading the fine manual and explaining it to 
others.)


> 3. If you intend to be a career IT programmer, expand your skill set. COBOL
> alone will simply not cut it. This is a limited career path anyway. If you
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> Century...").

That is just depressing.  Give up pragramming for law school?  Why can't 
we make lawyers obsolete instead...

I hope your prediction is incorrect.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** docdwarf@panix.com
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T11:19:36-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<bq2jqo$m32$1@panix1.panix.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com>`

```
In article <joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com>,
Joe Zitzelberger  <joe_zitzelberger@nospam.com> wrote:

[snip]

>I have come to the conclusion that some large majority (+90% 
>maybe) of technical people don't really care to understand why or how 
>new things operate -- they are happy with what they learned in school 
>and will never expand that knowledge unless forced.  

Mr Zitzelberger, this is a variant of Sturgeon's Law (something along the 
lines of '90% of everything is crap') and similar to a conclusion to which 
I came decades back - based, of course, on the limited experience I had 
then - of 'In *any* profession, doing *any* job, maybe 10% of the 
practioners have 'The Touch'... everyone else is just kind of getting by 
and hoping not to get caught.'

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** scomstock@aol.com (S Comstock)
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T16:59:31+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031126115931.08047.00000602@mb-m03.aol.com>`
- **References:** `<bq2jqo$m32$1@panix1.panix.com>`

```
Doc Dwarf writes ...

>In article <joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com>,
>Joe Zitzelberger  <joe_zitzelberger@nospam.com> wrote:
…[13 more quoted lines elided]…
>and hoping not to get caught.'

Funny, Doc. And true in my experience / observation, also. And a little sad.

Kind regards,


-Steve Comstock
800-993-9716
303-393-8716
www.trainersfriend.com
email: steve@trainersfriend.com
256-B S. Monaco Parkway
Denver, CO 80224
USA
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** docdwarf@panix.com
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T12:09:40-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<bq2mok$7g5$1@panix1.panix.com>`
- **References:** `<bq2jqo$m32$1@panix1.panix.com> <20031126115931.08047.00000602@mb-m03.aol.com>`

```
In article <20031126115931.08047.00000602@mb-m03.aol.com>,
S Comstock <scomstock@aol.com> wrote:
>Doc Dwarf writes ...
>
…[17 more quoted lines elided]…
>Funny, Doc. And true in my experience / observation, also. And a little sad.

We agree?  One of us must be wrong, he babbled, Wildely... Mr Comstock, it 
is, admittedly, a function of our experiences and interpretations, but... 
'sad'?  It might be said to be no more 'sad' than other observed 
constants, like 9.8m/sec/sec or 100C or 2.7182818284.

>
>Kind regards,

Holidazed greets, likewise.

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** scomstock@aol.com (S Comstock)
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T20:44:04+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031126154404.08047.00000620@mb-m03.aol.com>`
- **References:** `<bq2mok$7g5$1@panix1.panix.com>`

```
>In article <20031126115931.08047.00000602@mb-m03.aol.com>,
>S Comstock <scomstock@aol.com> wrote:
…[21 more quoted lines elided]…
>We agree?  

Not uncommon, I believe.

>One of us must be wrong, he babbled, Wildely...

Ah, I see. Being your own straight man to set up your pun. Cute, too.


> Mr Comstock, it 
>is, admittedly, a function of our experiences and interpretations, but... 
>'sad'?  It might be said to be no more 'sad' than other observed 
>constants, like 9.8m/sec/sec or 100C or 2.7182818284

Well, I understand what you're saying, but I think you know what I was saying,
too (but I have learned to not be totally assured about reading other's minds).



I teach a lot of classes and see a lot of programmers in different companies,
and there does seem to be a trend towards less interest in working hard (or
even working smart, or even working) than in days of yore. I still find this
business fascinating, and I am continually learning new and amazing things from
you and Pete and Jimmy and many others on this and other newsgroups. So there
are exceptions. But there does seem to be a decline; to me that's sad to see
because I think those with no interest in continual learning are missing a
sense of fun and wonder. But, of course, that's not my problem. 

What's new here in Denver?

My colleague and I have purchased a zPad. That's an IBM Thinkpad laptop
computer running z/OS 1.4 [for the non-mainframers in the group, z/OS is IBM's
64-bit mainframe operating system]. Of necessity, then, I've become a little
bit of a systems programmer.

We host a little intranet and private website on the z/OS software. I'm
finishing up a new course about the latest IBM COBOL compiler, using Unicode
and parsing XML and interoperating with Java. Yup. It's not your father's COBOL
any more.

But my personal favorite language is mainframe Assembler. And the new machines
have all kinds of cool hardware instructions. So fat city.

Happy holidaze to you, too.

Kind regards,


-Steve Comstock
800-993-9716
303-393-8716
www.trainersfriend.com
email: steve@trainersfriend.com
256-B S. Monaco Parkway
Denver, CO 80224
USA
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** "jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T22:01:00+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<wo9xb.8326$Cv6.4612@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<bq2mok$7g5$1@panix1.panix.com> <20031126154404.08047.00000620@mb-m03.aol.com>`

```
> My colleague and I have purchased a zPad. That's an IBM Thinkpad laptop
> computer running z/OS 1.4 [for the non-mainframers in the group, z/OS is
IBM's
> 64-bit mainframe operating system]. Of necessity, then, I've become a
little
> bit of a systems programmer.
The hardware is relatively cheap...So, do you get a software discount on
this machine or is the world's most expensive laptop?

JCE
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 11)_

- **From:** scomstock@aol.com (S Comstock)
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T22:48:40+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031126174840.08153.00000525@mb-m03.aol.com>`
- **References:** `<wo9xb.8326$Cv6.4612@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`

```
JCE writes ...

>> My colleague and I have purchased a zPad. That's an IBM Thinkpad laptop
>> computer running z/OS 1.4 [for the non-mainframers in the group, z/OS is
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
>this machine or is the world's most expensive laptop?

The software is free if you're part of the PartnerWorld Developer program and
promise to develop new commercial software and not use the machine for
production.

Kind regards,


-Steve Comstock
800-993-9716
303-393-8716
www.trainersfriend.com
email: steve@trainersfriend.com
256-B S. Monaco Parkway
Denver, CO 80224
USA
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** docdwarf@panix.com
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T20:54:06-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<bq3lfu$ki9$1@panix1.panix.com>`
- **References:** `<bq2mok$7g5$1@panix1.panix.com> <20031126154404.08047.00000620@mb-m03.aol.com>`

```
In article <20031126154404.08047.00000620@mb-m03.aol.com>,
S Comstock <scomstock@aol.com> wrote:
>>In article <20031126115931.08047.00000602@mb-m03.aol.com>,
>>S Comstock <scomstock@aol.com> wrote:
…[27 more quoted lines elided]…
>Ah, I see. Being your own straight man to set up your pun. Cute, too.

Don't forget how he managed to refer to himself in the third person, as 
well.

>
>
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
>too (but I have learned to not be totally assured about reading other's minds).

What I read you as saying, Mr Comstock, was that it was your 
experience/observation that similar to mine and that you label this as 
'sad'; I question how 'sad' can be applied to observed constants and then 
give some as examples.  If those examples are not to be labelled as 'sad' 
then I wonder how it is that another constant merits it.

>
>
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
>even working smart, or even working) than in days of yore.

Is this where I should begin to bemoan the passing of the Oldene Dayse, 
when a person could bemoan the passing of the Oldene Dayse such as *ten* 
people cannot, today?

>I still find this
>business fascinating, and I am continually learning new and amazing things from
>you and Pete and Jimmy and many others on this and other newsgroups. So there
>are exceptions.

According to previous observations one such 'exception' for nine 'usuals'.

>But there does seem to be a decline; to me that's sad to see
>because I think those with no interest in continual learning are missing a
>sense of fun and wonder.

'Fun and wonder' are, it seems, in the mind of the beholder... blessed are 
those who find treasures in pebbles as they will always be surrounded by 
riches.

[snip]

>Happy holidaze to you, too.

Most kind of you.

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** "Peter E.C. Dashwood" <dashwood@enternet.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T09:16:43+13:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3fc50a60_4@news.athenanews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com> <bq2jqo$m32$1@panix1.panix.com>`

```

<docdwarf@panix.com> wrote in message news:bq2jqo$m32$1@panix1.panix.com...
> In article <joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com>,
> Joe Zitzelberger  <joe_zitzelberger@nospam.com> wrote:
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> Mr Zitzelberger, this is a variant of Sturgeon's Law

Say, Doc, are there any caviars...sorry, caveats to that Law <G>?

>(something along the
> lines of '90% of everything is crap') and similar to a conclusion to which
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
>

Much as I hate to admit it (it goes against my generally optimistic nature
<G>), this accords with my own experience also (and not just in IT...).

Pete

> DD
>
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** docdwarf@panix.com
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T11:10:33-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<bq57lp$ge9$1@panix1.panix.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com> <bq2jqo$m32$1@panix1.panix.com> <3fc50a60_4@news.athenanews.com>`

```
In article <3fc50a60_4@news.athenanews.com>,
Peter E.C. Dashwood <dashwood@enternet.co.nz> wrote:
>
><docdwarf@panix.com> wrote in message news:bq2jqo$m32$1@panix1.panix.com...
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
>Say, Doc, are there any caviars...sorry, caveats to that Law <G>?

None that I know of, Mr Dashwood... perhaps that's why it had such a whale 
of an acceptance.

>
>>(something along the
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
><G>), this accords with my own experience also (and not just in IT...).

As with Mr Comstock, Mr Dashwood... what is it with this 'sadness' (his 
word) or 'hatred/anti-optimism'?  Do you 'hate to admit' that 
186,282mi/sec is (outside of high-gravity environs) a 'fairly constant' 
thing?  Is it 'against a generally optimistic nature' to say that every 
spring and every autumn there's a day - at about the same time of year - 
that has, more-or-less, 12 hours of darkness and twelve hours of light?

Honestly, I find this a source of amusement and wonder... one observed
phenomenon ('at sea level unpressurised, uncontaminated water boils at
100C') is considered 'a matter of nature', there's no sense in appplying
any emotion to it because... well, because if it ain't 'just Is' then it
is close enough, based on experience, to be considered 'just Is'... 'at
sea level unpressurise, uncontaminated water boils at 100C, this 
phenomenon, for whatever reason... just Is'.

Another observed phenomenon - 'In *any* profession, doing *any* job, maybe 
10% of the practioners have 'The Touch'... everyone else is just kind of 
getting by and hoping not to get caught' - is seen to be almost as 
universal as this boiling-water stuff... but *this* one makes people 'sad' 
and they 'hate to admit it'.

What might be the reasons for this discrepancy in interpretation?

(Thanks, all for this joyful bit of Holidazed Puzzlement!)

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "Peter E.C. Dashwood" <dashwood@enternet.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T09:11:42+13:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3fc5092f_8@news.athenanews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com>`

```

"Joe Zitzelberger" <joe_zitzelberger@nospam.com> wrote in message
news:joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com...
> In article <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com>,
>  "Peter E.C. Dashwood" <dashwood@enternet.co.nz> wrote:
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
>

Yes, I agree that would be a much better solution <G>.

Don't be depressed. I am not infallible...<G>

> I hope your prediction is incorrect.

Actually Joe, so do I... Nevertheless, I have to call 'em like I see 'em.

Pete.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** thaneh@softwaresimple.com (Thane Hubbell)
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T14:11:10-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<bfdfc3e8.0311271411.64170cea@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <joe_zitzelberger-AC9CE7.08285826112003@corp.supernews.com>`

```
Joe Zitzelberger <joe_zitzelberger@nospam.com> wrote in message 

> That is just depressing.  Give up pragramming for law school?  Why can't 
> we make lawyers obsolete instead...
> 

Interesting you mention Lawyers.  I think I'm going to try a "Lawyer"
style billing for my next set of customers, just to see if it flies. 
Ie:  A non-refundable retainer, that is billed against until the
project is done or it needs more money.  You don't see many lawyers
with outstanding receivables.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T16:24:22-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031126172509.705$aa@news.newsreader.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com>`

```
"Peter E.C. Dashwood" <dashwood@enternet.co.nz> wrote:
> "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote:
> > Sorry, but you fellows are misreading the post. It DOES NOT say that
…[11 more quoted lines elided]…
> me.

I did not take issue with Richard's statements about Microsoft. I took
issue with the fact that he completely missed the thrust of the post, and
'corrected' me as if I had made some grievous error. Richard has
done this many times, to me and others. Combined with the fact that
Richard rarely, if ever, admits his error in such cases, I find that
indefensible. I don't think I was unfair at all. In fact, Richard has done
exactly as I predicted, disclaiming any error on his part. In science,
isn't predictability evidence of a correct understanding of a process? :-)

> > The post was not about Microsoft, or advertising hype about Fujitsu
> > COBOL or .NET. The point is that there are people out there who, after
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> has ALWAYS been the case.

Perhaps in your experience, but not in mine. I have seen many shops
who used their money very effectively. I have never in my career
seen waste in IS like I have seen in the past five or six years.

> There are indeed some installations that are reviewing the use of COBOL.
> (I know of 2...). "Review" does not mean "Change" in these cases...

Yes, I agree.

> The problem is not with the COBOL language per se, it is with the whole
> "COBOL think" approach to system development.

I don't take issue with that.

> (I'm excluding mainframe installations from the following discussion. The
> ...
> quarters before the goal of efficient online maintenance is achieved...<G>).
>
> So we should be looking at what will deliver the best online performance.

I completely agree. I have no problem with using VB, Java, C/C++, whatever,
where they work well. My problem is when someone decides "GUI and PC
based client/server are the ONLY way to go. We're dumping our mainframe
and COBOL as soon as possible." This is nuts, yet I see this attitude a lot.
Has our industry lost the concept of ROI?

> COBOL is, for the most part, not good at this.
>
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> Beans or VB components and deployed instantly on the Web or the desktop.

I would take issue with the value of OO across the board, but that's another
story. :-)

> Like many people over the last 15 years, Judson, I have expanded my skill
> set. The term "COBOL people" does not apply to me (and many others like me),
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> then I have no problem with that.

I hope you don't place me in this category Peter, because I have been
"expanding my  skill set" from day one. :-) The list of languages I have
mastered and used professionally is very long (over 40). I just believe
that most people are dumping COBOL without even evaluating whether
it makes sense to do so in their situation.

> Said it before (many times <G>), say it again: "The BEST tools for the job."

Amen! :-)

> It staggers me that people who are (for the most part) otherwise very bright
> (I'm talking about COBOL Programmers...), just are not prepared to invest a
> few extra hours of their own time in furthering their education.

Me too. Most of the languages I have learned have been on my own time,
outside of direct job needs.

> (I put this down to emotional attachment to COBOL; learning something else
> is like betraying your lover...<G>)

Believe it or not, I have never been a language bigot. I like and regularly
use several languages, but I use the one I feel is best suited for the job at
hand.

> > I'm tired of
> > watching clients blow millions that might as well have been piled up
…[11 more quoted lines elided]…
> done it in COBOL they'd be home free..."

Believe me, thet're still running on the COBOL applications, and if you
saw the details, you would call it a failure too. Except for some hardware
upgrades, that money might as well have been thrown down a hole.

> The misuse of a $20 million budget is not just down to programmers (in
> whatever language). It sounds very much like some severe mis-management,
> lack of experience, design, planning, and control. For that kind of money,
> they could have bought some proper MANAGEMENT (not just technical)
> experience.

It is. One of those 'consultants' who could not do it himself to save his
life told one of the top management people that "COBOL and mainframes
are dinosaurs, you must get rid of them ASAP" and they bought it, hook,
line and sinker. There were other, political reasons why they were
inclined to want to believe this. It has been an unmitigated disaster by
any measure.

> > VB, Java, etc. have their place, but building large business applications
> > is not it.
>
> Right. That's why they go to Siebel, SAP, and similar corporate solutions.
> They already had their fingers burned with COBOL.

Not the folks above, they've never been burned with COBOL, or the
mainframe.

> It is intended as a Quick Build GUI front ending tool. As such, VB is very
> useful. COM components developed in VB are even more useful and I use a
> number of them every day. Third party components are a very attractive
> option and many of them are written in VB.

I use VB myself. I just don't use it to write significant business systems
with it, or anything that needs to be around more than a few years.

> > too expensive,
>
> $US100 for something that would've taken at least 6 weeks for ME (not a
> junior programmer) to write in COBOL? I don't think so...

The cost of training and development using it, not the purchase price.

> I have managed several non-COBOL projects. They take no longer than anything
> else. In some cases they are much faster than traditional COBOL because the
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> I was stunned. Couldn't believe it would work <G>. It did.

I believe you, but I have never seen that situation. I can relate a long string
of complete failures by a number of entities using those tools, but not one
'big' success, not one at all, of which I have personal knowledge.

> >and too much hassle.
>
> Developing computer systems is ALWAYS a "hassle" for somebody. COBOL is no
> exception. (Tried getting DBA approval to add a couple of tables to the
> Corporate DB <G>?)

You're confusing procedural hassles with technical hassles. :-)

> > Why do you think there is a 45%+ failure rate for new
> > systems these days? Barely more than half of the new systems attempted
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> been pretty lucky...<G>)

Actually, I have seen that figure from a number of sources, but the first
one I recall seeing was an extensive study done by (IIRC) the Gortner
(sp?) group about 5 years ago.

> > Who of you
> > old timers ever saw such a thing with COBOL based systems?
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> on time. (It did, AFTER the time was re-estimated...)

Late is one thing, but late to the point it must be abandoned is another.
I believe projects are generally late because it is simply next to
impossible to accurately judge how many problems and delays are
going to occur over a complex project. This applies even to such old
and well studied fields as civil engineering. No surprise it also happens
in the IS field.

> 1. The complexity of the COBOL projects in "Oldene Tymes" was nothing like
> the complexity of modern Network based systems. Comparing Batch processing
> systems to distributed Client Server systems is like comparing army boots to
> rollerblades. Where there is a more complex environment, there is more scope
> for failure.

I'm talking about COBOL projects NOW, that are being done now, and
have been completed very recently. In the late 90's I was writing a large
and very complex business system for a client. They also wanted to have
a cash receipting system that would work with that system and others they
already had. Unisys was paid $75,000 to do a 'study' (ha!). When they
presented their proposal, they estimated $500,000 to do it with all the
latest tools. I watched their presentation agast. When they were through,
I asked "is that it?" "Yes, why?" "Because I can write that in COBOL in
a week." They scoffed, so I proceeded to design the thing on the backboard
while they were watching. When I was through, there was silence for a
couple of minutes, then the client's senior analyst in charge of the project
said "I could give that to one of any one of my programmers, and they
could write that in a couple of days." Unisys then went to management
and said (literally) "You can pay us $500,000 or pay Jud $50,000." The
final cash receipting system I did was far more elaborate that the one they
proposed, and it cost $47,000, balanced to the penny the first day and
every day since. Recently IS has been showing them packages to replace
the little system I did, and they tell me they have seen nothing remotely
close to as good as what they have. It would have been far, far more
costly and time consuming even for me to have done it using VB, Java,
or any of the latest 'tools du jour' I have seen.

> Case in point: I recently spent 2 years (initially in my spare time, but
> full time since I arived home in April) designing and building a certain Web
…[12 more quoted lines elided]…
> working but I learned some very hard lessons.

Amen! THAT'S what I mean by 'fragile' and 'hassle'! My experience has
been similar. I have been programming in BASIC since 1975, and have
written business systems in it, probably several hundred thousand lines
or so, all told. I know BASIC about as well as any computer langauge.
But I have written some routines as many as SIX times in VB, just to
make them work. I would bet big money the code was logically and
syntactically correct every time, but it just wouldn't work. I have on rare
occasions had to do this in COBOL, C, another BASIC or other language,
when there was probably a subtle logic error I couldn't see, or perhaps
a compiler error, and just rewrote it another way to save time. But I have
never, ever, ever rewritten one SIX TIMES, other than in VB.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T20:59:48-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311262059.305aa996@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <20031126172509.705$aa@news.newsreader.com>`

```
"Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote 

> I took
> issue with the fact that he completely missed the thrust of the post, 

I respond to parts of the post that _I_ want to. You post to make
particular points, so do I.  I don't feel compelled to respond only to
those parts that you feel 'important' or authorise.

> and
> 'corrected' me as if I had made some grievous error. 

You are quite correct that I mistakenly took that part of the post as
referring to MS where you had meant it to refer to the cases.

> Richard has done this many times, to me and others. 
> Combined with the fact that
> Richard rarely, if ever, admits his error in such cases, 

> I find that indefensible. 

OTOH I rarely use personal abuse preferring to respond to the message
and not the person.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T06:39:30-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031127074019.497$QV@news.newsreader.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <20031126172509.705$aa@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311262059.305aa996@posting.google.com>`

```
"Richard" <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote:
> "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote
> > I took
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> those parts that you feel 'important' or authorise.

No problem with that.

> > and
> > 'corrected' me as if I had made some grievous error.
>
> You are quite correct that I mistakenly took that part of the post as
> referring to MS where you had meant it to refer to the cases.

Bravo! Thank you, sir.

> > Richard has done this many times, to me and others.
> > Combined with the fact that
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> and not the person.

I don't believe accurately describing a person's behavior ranks as
"personal abuse". Richard, you may not realize it, but you often take
a 'superior' attitude in your posts, and the tone of your language implies
the other person doesn't have a clue what they're talking about. To be
honest, and really trying not to be offensive, it sometimes reminds me
of some young (like myself in my youth) smart people who, while they
may be correct most of the time, don't yet have enough experience to
realize they can be wrong too, sometimes dead wrong. Not that you
are that, just that the language comes across that way sometimes. As
long as you're careful to be sure of your target and facts, I don't have a
problem with you firing away. But many of the people around here,
including you and me, do know what we're talking about, at least most
of the time. I think they, I, and you too, deserve that we take a closer
look when they appear to have said something stupid, just to make
sure. :-)
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T11:39:51-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311271139.264bf13c@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <20031126172509.705$aa@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311262059.305aa996@posting.google.com> <20031127074019.497$QV@news.newsreader.com>`

```
"Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote 

> > OTOH I rarely use personal abuse preferring to respond to the message
> > and not the person.
> 
> I don't believe accurately describing a person's behavior ranks as
> "personal abuse".

And the use of 'stupid' is what ?

> Richard, you may not realize it, but you often take
> a 'superior' attitude in your posts, and the tone of your language

Its only words.  Intonation and the way I hold my nose in the air are
entirely figments of your imagination   ;-)
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this! (Er... perhaps not....)

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-28T05:24:13-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031128062503.597$om@news.newsreader.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3fc3ff33_1@news.athenanews.com> <20031126172509.705$aa@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311262059.305aa996@posting.google.com> <20031127074019.497$QV@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311271139.264bf13c@posting.google.com>`

```
"Richard" <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote:
> "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote
>
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> And the use of 'stupid' is what ?


It depends on how 'stupid' is used. What I said was "it makes you look
stupid." When anyone, you, me or anyone else, makes a clear mistake
and refuses to admit it, they look stupid, or at least pigheaded. :-)

> > Richard, you may not realize it, but you often take
> > a 'superior' attitude in your posts, and the tone of your language
>
> Its only words.  Intonation and the way I hold my nose in the air are
> entirely figments of your imagination   ;-)

I'll have to agree with you there. :-)
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T19:42:41-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311251942.ca76fba@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com>`

```
"Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote 

> Sorry, but you fellows are misreading the post. It DOES NOT say that
> Microsoft is 'abandoning Java' or 'salvaging their COBOL'.

The post specifically said 'they'. Using standard english the pronoun
refers directly back to the last noun of the correct number.  In the
post this is 'Microsoft'.

> It says
> that about the Superior Court of California, the 'they' in the post. 

In standard english the 'they' refers back to the immediately previous
noun of the correct number.  'Superior Court of California' is not
previously mentioned. 'Case studies' are mentioned, but is prior to
Microsoft.

Now you may well argue that the post is incorrectly _written_, but to
claim that it is our fault for misreading the post is wrong.

> My
> friend simply found the info on the Microsoft web site. Read it again
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> I'm surprised you did not catch that, Jimmy.

Hah !!!  See if you can work out who is the one who _should_ feel
stupid.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T07:04:42+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<egYwb.79871$86.1044882@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251942.ca76fba@posting.google.com>`

```
"Richard" <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote in message
news:217e491a.0311251942.ca76fba@posting.google.com...
> "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote
>
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> post this is 'Microsoft'.

This is the first part of the post.  If one continues to read the post in
its entirety we find:

"The Superior Court Stanislaus County System needed to update its legacy
Case Management system. Nine months into efforts to
implement a Java-based solution, they halted the project because of
scalability problems and high development costs"

In this case there is the pronoun "they".  There is no reference to MS.
Also - if there is anything grammatically wrong with this statement you
cannot blame JM because he is not the author.


> > It says
> > that about the Superior Court of California, the 'they' in the post.
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> claim that it is our fault for misreading the post is wrong.

Let's clarify some more......He [JM] may argue that the post was misread.
You [R] claim the post is wrong.  I [JCE] claim that you [R] obviously do
not read the entire post before drawing conclusions.  I agree that his[JM]
comments may have been misleading; however, when put in context with the
included text that he[JM] did not author, it was fairly easy to follow.

> > My
> > friend simply found the info on the Microsoft web site. Read it again
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> > look stupid, like now (surprise me Richard, by admitting it this time
:).
> > I'm surprised you did not catch that, Jimmy.
>
> Hah !!!  See if you can work out who is the one who _should_ feel
> stupid.
I'm not sure anyone should feel stupid.  It's a misunderstanding - it
happens all the time.

Let's all  kiss and make up and not get over ourselves[JCE/R/JM].

JCE
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T15:07:14-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20031126160802.798$5D@news.newsreader.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251942.ca76fba@posting.google.com>`

```
"Richard" <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote:
> "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote
> > Sorry, but you fellows are misreading the post. It DOES NOT say that
…[12 more quoted lines elided]…
> Microsoft.

Richard, the phrase "on the Microsoft web site" is a modifier to the
VERB 'looking'. It is neither the subject nor the object of the sentence.
The object of the sentence was 'case studies', and any reference to
'they' in a following sentence should be taken as referring to those.
You need to go back and study English, since you obviously have
trouble understanding it.

> Now you may well argue that the post is incorrectly _written_, but to
> claim that it is our fault for misreading the post is wrong.

The post could have been phrased clearer, I agree, but I didn't write that
part. Had you been a little less eager to find fault, and given me a little
credit for not being a complete moron, you could have seen that in the
first place. Unfortunately, that is one virtue you seem to be lacking,
Richard. You assume everybody but yourself is an idiot whom you must
correct.

> > My
> > friend simply found the info on the Microsoft web site. Read it again
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> stupid.

I knew that from the beginning. I also knew you would not admit to
being wrong, no matter how obvious it was. I was right, too. :-)
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** "James J. Gavan" <jjgavan@shaw.ca>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T05:15:11+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com>`

```
Judson McClendon wrote:

Glad to see you are still in fine fettle. 'Take no prisoners !".  <G>

Gave it a read :-

http://www.microsoft.com/resources/casestudies/CaseStudy.asp?CaseStudyID=14513

Next time Buster, give a direct link ???

I wont dispute what the article says, and I'll take the comments from the *actual* users as read and verifiable, same goes for comments
from Microsoft and Fujitsu.
This is a success story -  but it is still PROMOTING Microsoft as the sloution :-

- takes a passing swipe at Big Blue ("get rid of your mainframe") - can't argue a case for that - may well be valid.

- Java - ah what else ? However, unless they were 'linking' COBOL and Java to get the Web element - seems like a pretty ambitious route
for them to have gone in the first place, sraight from mainframe thinking into, shhh..., OO-techniques via Java. I may have misread it,
but it looked like initially they had the thought process of dropping COBOL and using Java as the alternative - might have got that
wrong.

Yes, we have also heard the recurring tales of Java slowness, but a Net Express user said the same thing about the MS 'tool' Visual
Basic some two/three years ago, compared to using N/E  GUI classes.

Note that Jerry said Sun shut Microsoft out from Java, and yet one of the first books I read said there were three Javas -  Sun,
Microsoft and HP - the latter, because they needed coding to accommodate electrical components put into fridges, freezers etc. Same book
said "Watch it !", MS have put in specific features applicable to Windows only..

- NetCOBOL - agreed it doesn't plug Fujitsu. It's sat there as a stable COBOLproduct that interfaces with .Net. No doubt, if somebody
using the .Net feature in Net Express has a similar success story - MS will gladly advertise that as well. I have no idea -  the other
PC compilers - Acu and Liant etc., may already have or plan to have .Net interface features. That means that Fujitsu were just the first
to leave the srtarting gate.

One interesting comment on NetCOBOL, Thane wrote something to the effect,  "F/J had to make a 'concession' and drop FACTORY from OO
COBOL for the .Net ".. Firstly the J4 Standard is being bent to accommodate MS, secondly, I don't know what the hell I would do without
being able to create Instances via the FACTORY.
Not being into either the C-family or Java, do they allow for Instances ?

- Let's ask the question. They were switching from CICS and the problem seems to have been primarily switching from the green screens,
the 'Business Logic' still being stable, pure bread and butter procedural code - no fancy OO stuff. I wont be surprised if  Bob from
Flexus comes back and says he could have provided a green screen converter. If that's the case - what's the big deal about the .Net ?

- But the article keeps coming back the the .Net link which pulls it all together - Microsoft Visual Studio, (had to take a quick read
to see what that's about).

Let's get one thing VERY straight. I am in no way a Microsoft 'hater'. I have great admiration for Bill Gates and the organization he
has put together. And by golly, it does the job, e.g. all those interfaces such as numerous drivers for printers.. However, for the good
of consumers and commerce, there just has to be an alternative - it might never be Linux. We have to have something that isn't
monpolistic.

As for finding the link and wading through umpteen screens, with very discernible pauses, said "Done", the progress bar at the bottom is
frozen and I'm looking at white space for an interminable time. Can't help but think young feisty Kellie down there in the sunny
south-west might just have it right. We do *need* a FLASHER..

Could make yourself a few bucks Kellie :-

first "flasher"
--------------------------------------------------------
Don't worry. Be happy - I'm processing your next screen
- followed by a 'Smiley'
---------------------------------------------------------

Still nothing, another "flasher".

------------------------------------------
Honest ! I really am trying to load your next screen
- followed by a Smiley.
--------------------------------------------------

I'm not using a modem but a direct cable connection with Netscape. "Ahhh Ha !", comments somebody. "There's your problem ! W-H-Y don't
you use - wait for it - MSN ?"  ##@4!!!&*!

Jimmy

> Sorry, but you fellows are misreading the post. It DOES NOT say that
> Microsoft is 'abandoning Java' or 'salvaging their COBOL'. It says
…[105 more quoted lines elided]…
> >
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "James J. Gavan" <jjgavan@shaw.ca>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T05:18:25+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3FC43178.C99BCB8C@shaw.ca>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca>`

```


"James J. Gavan" wrote:

> Judson McClendon wrote:
>
> Glad to see you are still in fine fettle. 'Take no prisoners !".  <G>

Don't believe me. I hit the damned send button by accident. The general idea is there but I haven't as yet looked at that Visual Studio
reference to see precisely what it is..

Mea culpa

Jimmy


>
>
…[177 more quoted lines elided]…
> > >
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T07:32:29-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca>`

```
James J. Gavan wrote:
>
> Let's get one thing VERY straight. I am in no way a Microsoft
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> monpolistic.

No, we need a monopoly - at least for operating systems. In most cases,
consumers come out better under monopolies than some sort of imposed
competition. Remember, the arch monopolist John Rockefeller brought down the
cost of kerosene from three dollars a gallon to less than five cents in only
three years. This essentially destroyed the whale-oil industry but gave
economical lighting to the masses. Standard Oil was eventually broken up,
but not because of pressure from consumers.

In the case of software, a monopolist is his own worst competitor. Unless he
constantly innovates - offering a better product - his revenue stream
disappears. Monopolists are only a bad deal for consumers if the item the
monopolist offers is a consumable - food, transportation, communications,
etc., but not always even then (kerosene).

Let's examine the "good of consumers and commerce" notion. The price of
Windows has not risen appreciably (if at all) since version 1.0 while the
features and power have increased immeasurably. How is that bad for
consumers? Commerce? Ye Gods, Micros~1 is one of the nation's leading
exporters, millions of people earn a living using tools crafted by Micros~1,
productivity is at an all time high.

No, we would all be better off by letting Micros~1 do what it does best.

----
Full disclosure: The fact that I own a shit load of Micros~1 stock has
absolutely no bearing on the above analysis.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "James J. Gavan" <jjgavan@shaw.ca>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T18:28:25+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<3FC4F0A8.A97B9380@shaw.ca>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com>`

```


JerryMouse wrote:

> James J. Gavan wrote:
> >
…[33 more quoted lines elided]…
> absolutely no bearing on the above analysis.

I'm somewhat startled that you would advocate a monopoly, but realize you aren't
making the point specifically for Microsoft.

In a sense it might be advantageous for consumers if say Wal;-Mart and COSTCO
ran the department stores and other retail chains into the ground. Already with
buying power, given no other retail competitors they would then be able to
squeeze the manufacturers even more. The next step would be that they determine
which products they will sell. Does that auger well for the consumer ?

Would the auto industry have been as innovative if somehow Ford had been able to
keep all his technology secret. Similarly the aircraft industry where prior to,
and during WW2, Germany, Italy, UK and eventually U.S. designed jet engines.

Fortunately in the above scenarios there was a tremendous amount of innovation
from many manufacturers, each drawing on known technologies and enhancements
from one another. (Some of the 'Axis' jet technology only became available when
the War finished).

While Bill Gates is still in charge, we know there is (by appearances) a fairly
modest man with vision.  Concentrating on the vision aspect, he has left the
day-to-day chores to Ballham, a marketing geek. Bill is still a young man - long
after I'm gone, I'd be fascinated to know what happens to Microsoft when he is
no longer around as the 'Captain'.

Granted with all those bright enthusiastic kids at the Bellingham University,
he's got them on their toes to be innovative. But just as in systems design, you
eventually finish up down a tried and true path, to your own liking. It would
beneficial if others were around to take a different look,  arriving at a
different perspective and offering competitive products.

If you think on it, the underlying theme of your suggestion that MS should be
the monopolist, is that the way to go 'Is the American Way' in a global context.
Not just Gulf War II, and while acknowledging the US contribution to Europe's
well being, many in the EU block are becoming very uncomfortable. That's why,
with no particular anti MS bias, the Japanese and Koreans,  (and they hope to
include the Chinese),  are looking for an alternative.

Jimmy, Calgary AB
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T17:09:35-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com>`

```
"JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote 

> No, we need a monopoly - 

Well _we_ certainly do not need a monopolist, especially not an
American one.

> at least for operating systems.

Simply not true.  What is required is standards that may be used by
any and not some contrived 'industrial standard' that is obscure,
protected and designed primarily to protect one company.

> In most cases, consumers come out better under monopolies 

Certainly the monopolist will tell you that.

> than some sort of imposed competition. 

There is no 'imposed' competition.  There is no need for imposed
competition, just get rid of the imposed monolopoly illegally gained
through 'per box' and leverage.  The courts found this and yet haven't
stopped MS.

> Remember, the arch monopolist John Rockefeller brought down the
> cost of kerosene from three dollars a gallon to less than five cents in only
> three years. This essentially destroyed the whale-oil industry but gave
> economical lighting to the masses. Standard Oil was eventually broken up,
> but not because of pressure from consumers.

And MS brought down the price of web browsers to zero dollars,
essentially destroying Netscape and many other companies in the
process, and also gyping spyglass out of its revenue.

(Spyglass wrote IE for a fee for each copy of IE _sold_.  MS _gave_ it
away and thus didn't send any money to Spyglass - 'normal' business
practice for MS).

But MS have _not_ brought down the price of Windows or Office to '5
cents' so your analogy is simply crap.  When DR-DOS was gaining some
market share against MS-DOS MS did bring down the price of MS-DOS to
zero dollars by bundling MS-DOS plus Windows 3.11 at the same price as
Windows 3.11 alone and by imposing per box pricing so that you paid
thge 'MS tax' if you bought a machine with DR-DOS installed.

The kerosene pricing was _entirely_ to kill off competitive products
and was nothing to do with consumer benefits.  And this is exactly how
MS operates.

> In the case of software, a monopolist is his own worst competitor. 

It is true that MS's greatest threat used to be old versions of
Windows - users sticking to Win98 or WinNT were a threat to MS's
revenue stream.

This is why MS tried to make selling a computer without an OS
'illegal' by the box makers, or at least a breach of reseller
agreements.  With XP you cannot replace the hardware and keep the old
OS, you must buy a new copy.

> Unless he
> constantly innovates - offering a better product - his revenue stream
> disappears. 

MS does not innovate at all.  They steal or buy in innovations and
claim them as their own.

A recent claim by MS was that there was no innovation in browsers.
Certainly there has been no innovation by _MS_, all the innovation was
by Spyglass (who wrote IE) and by many other companies.  While MS did
add features to IE they were entirely directed at breaking standards
and other browsers so that IE _had_ to be used and therefore Windows
had to be.

As for 'better' products, they only make them better enough.  XP is a
better Windows but is not a secure product because MS don't want it to
be.  They want to keep the threat of viruses, piracy and attacks
because those are from non-MS parties.  MS can keep offering 'better'
products as long as 'evil' others can come up with new ways of
attacking Windows.

MS will leverage monthly updates into rentals to continue the revenue
stream, they will never actually fix the problem because then there
will be no need to update or upgrade.

> Monopolists are only a bad deal for consumers if the item the
> monopolist offers is a consumable - food, transportation, communications,
> etc., but not always even then (kerosene).

Which is why MS are trying to turn licences into rentals.  A
significant proportion of corporates are already on expiring licences
rather than perpetual ones on the 3 year scheme.  As it happens the
next scheduled release of Windows is just outside the majority of
those 3 year contracts.  How convenient.

> Let's examine the "good of consumers and commerce" notion. The price of
> Windows has not risen appreciably (if at all) since version 1.0 

Simply not true when taken as a percentage of system price.  Today for
a low cost system the MS licences is the single biggest component. For
most systems MS makes more money than the hardware manufacturer and
marketer of the system.

Prices have tracked down continuously for the whole industry _except_
for MS.

> while the
> features and power have increased immeasurably. How is that bad for
> consumers? 

Not 'immeasuraby' at all, except in terms of CPU cycles and GBytes
required.

While a basic computer has improved in power and capacity by a factor
of several thousand over the last 20 years and reduced in price by a
factor of 10 or so MS has done little except rake off the cream and
keep its prices up.

> Commerce? Ye Gods, Micros~1 is one of the nation's leading
> exporters, 

How insular of you to view it that way.  

> millions of people earn a living using tools crafted by Micros~1,
> productivity is at an all time high.

You seem to think that is attributable to MS only.  In fact many of
those tools were _not_ crafted by MS at all, they were bought in to
ensure that MS controlled the market place.

> No, we would all be better off by letting Micros~1 do what it does best.

'All' being 'all shareholders' no doubt.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T22:34:35-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com>`

```
Richard wrote:


Hey, Slick! You've lost it.

>
> Simply not true.  What is required is standards that may be used by
> any and not some contrived 'industrial standard' that is obscure,
> protected and designed primarily to protect one company.

"Standard" = Monopoly by he who sets the standard.

>
>> In most cases, consumers come out better under monopolies
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> stopped MS.

Slick, here's a flash. It is not against the laws of God or man to be a
monopoly. By consent decree, unfair business practices have stopped with no
admission of wrong-doing. The courts haven't found squat.

>
>> Remember, the arch monopolist John Rockefeller brought down the
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> process, and also gyping spyglass out of its revenue.

Who give a shit about Netscape? A price of zero for a browser is certainly a
boon for tens of millions. Don't feel too bad for Netscape, they conned AOL
into buying them out for boatloads of money.

>
> (Spyglass wrote IE for a fee for each copy of IE _sold_.  MS _gave_ it
> away and thus didn't send any money to Spyglass - 'normal' business
> practice for MS).

Heh, heh. Too bad for Spyglass. Dumbasses. It's Darwinism, you see.

>
> But MS have _not_ brought down the price of Windows or Office to '5
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> thge 'MS tax' if you bought a machine with DR-DOS installed.

So what? Again, zero dollars is good for consumers. Who gives a shit about
DR-DOS?

>
> The kerosene pricing was _entirely_ to kill off competitive products
> and was nothing to do with consumer benefits.  And this is exactly how
> MS operates.

No, the purpose of bringing down the price of kerosene was to generate a
market. Before cheap kerosene, when it got dark people had nothing to do but
breed. And tend mushrooms.

>
>> In the case of software, a monopolist is his own worst competitor.
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> OS, you must buy a new copy.

MS could not make selling a blank-box illegal; MS has a lot of power, but
not the power necessary to put someone in jail. Re-seller "tying" agreements
are the norm in almost every business (if you're a grocer, you can't stock
Pepsi unless you agree to stock Mountain Dew). With XP you may install the
OS on as many machines as you want - just not more than one at a time.
>
>> Unless he
…[11 more quoted lines elided]…
> had to be.

Not that there's anything wrong with that.

>
> As for 'better' products, they only make them better enough.

Good enough is good enough.

>XP is a
> better Windows but is not a secure product because MS don't want it to
> be.

There is no such thing as a secure OS or any other product. Blaming MS for
the impossible is common amongst MS haters. It's the pathology, you see.

>They want to keep the threat of viruses, piracy and attacks
> because those are from non-MS parties.  MS can keep offering 'better'
> products as long as 'evil' others can come up with new ways of
> attacking Windows.

And what's wrong with that?

>
> MS will leverage monthly updates into rentals to continue the revenue
> stream, they will never actually fix the problem because then there
> will be no need to update or upgrade.

Maybe. That's why there are so many ant-virus companies, anti-spam tools,
pop-up blockers, etc. Seems MS is fostering innovation and job creation.

>
>> Monopolists are only a bad deal for consumers if the item the
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> those 3 year contracts.  How convenient.

It's good business sense to turn a one-time sale into a repetitive one.

>
>> Let's examine the "good of consumers and commerce" notion. The price
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> marketer of the system.

It's also not true when compared to the number of red-haired dwarves in
South Africa. In absolute dollars (or pesos or whatever), the price of
Windows is close to what it was ten years ago while the features have
increased.

>
> Prices have tracked down continuously for the whole industry _except_
> for MS.

They get what the market can stand. If the price were higher, people
wouldn't buy it; lower and they couldn't make it fast enought. This
porridege is just about right.

>
>> Commerce? Ye Gods, Micros~1 is one of the nation's leading
>> exporters,
>
> How insular of you to view it that way.

Not insular: practical. Adam Smith opined that each country should do what
it does best and trade this best product with its neighbors. The
U.S./Microsoft makes good software and trades it to, ah, Japan and gets, in
return, perfectly servicable VCRs. And floppy drives.

>
>> millions of people earn a living using tools crafted by Micros~1,
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> ensure that MS controlled the market place.

Whatever. They've got Microsoft's name on them, they're sold, maintained,
and updated by Microsoft. You think, just maybe, they really come from Honda
and we're all being fooled?

>
>> No, we would all be better off by letting Micros~1 do what it does
>> best.
>
> 'All' being 'all shareholders' no doubt.

I hadn't thought of it, but, yes, us too.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** "jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T06:57:30+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<ufhxb.95228$86.1157792@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com>`

```
I'm commenting on both JerryMouse and Richard at the same time
sometimes...just to be confusing...

"JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote in message
news:bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com...
> Richard wrote:
> Hey, Slick! You've lost it.

> > Simply not true.  What is required is standards that may be used by
> > any and not some contrived 'industrial standard' that is obscure,
> > protected and designed primarily to protect one company.
>
> "Standard" = Monopoly by he who sets the standard.

What if one defined an open standard maintained by a non-profit third party
organization?

The issue that I have with Sun vs Microsoft (not that this is the basis of
the argument but is always the good vs evil example) is that neither of the
companies is behaving any better than the other.
Microsoft wanted to bypass the Java security model and hook into Windows to
benefit it's end users, and perhaps, to subvert the language
Sun wanted to enforce it's own standards and not allow any extensions.

I don't see anyone too terribly po's that MF/Fujitsu/IBM support different
COBOL extensions....

As has been said...Java is not cross platform...it's a single
platform....rights owned and maintained by Sun.  Protecting that is their
issue.  If it wasn't they would let the product go.

> >> In most cases, consumers come out better under monopolies
> > Certainly the monopolist will tell you that.
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> monopoly. By consent decree, unfair business practices have stopped with
no
> admission of wrong-doing. The courts haven't found squat.

I think that this America's great paradox.....on the one had the great
capitalist machine wants you to be a gazillionaire...but then once you get
to be one you're a parasite unless you give huge chunks to charity (and a
publicly approved one).  Bill Gates gives money to the AIDS crisis - but at
the same time he invests heavily in US biotech companies that are protected
by the WTO.  No doubt if there is ever a cure found for AIDS Bill Gates is
more likely to make more money than he's giving away.

> >> Remember, the arch monopolist John Rockefeller brought down the
> >> cost of kerosene from three dollars a gallon to less than five cents
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> Who give a shit about Netscape? A price of zero for a browser is certainly
a
> boon for tens of millions. Don't feel too bad for Netscape, they conned
AOL
> into buying them out for boatloads of money.

And then they ripped off Time Warner....good deal.
AOL is a monopoly that managed to join another monopoly TW and still somehow
screw up.

> > (Spyglass wrote IE for a fee for each copy of IE _sold_.  MS _gave_ it
> > away and thus didn't send any money to Spyglass - 'normal' business
> > practice for MS).
> Heh, heh. Too bad for Spyglass. Dumbasses. It's Darwinism, you see.

This is the same as every other business.  Once upon a time three guys
working in a garage on a pc.....their invention was owned by their employer
who didn't want it (or understand).

If I invent something great - I don't own it, my employer does.
I bet anyone who works for IBM/HP/Sun/MS/Dell/EDS/Accenture/Siebel/SAP has a
contract stating that all their creative ideas are owned by their
employer....this is no different only these companies have ownership of
100,000s of potentially creative minds.  They by your time and your mind.

Some of the contractors amongst us may have clauses in their contract that
also say this, but it might not be as strict...

Spyglass should have read the fine print.

Why is it no one is smart enough to out legalese MS?

> > But MS have _not_ brought down the price of Windows or Office to '5
> > cents' so your analogy is simply crap.  When DR-DOS was gaining some
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> DR-DOS?
I don't

> > This is why MS tried to make selling a computer without an OS
> > 'illegal' by the box makers, or at least a breach of reseller
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> not the power necessary to put someone in jail. Re-seller "tying"
agreements
> are the norm in almost every business (if you're a grocer, you can't stock
> Pepsi unless you agree to stock Mountain Dew). With XP you may install the
> OS on as many machines as you want - just not more than one at a time.

This is what ruined a fun part pub culture in England.  The idea of a
"guest" beer was thrown out when the large breweries came in bought out the
pubs.

With XP you can replace the hardware....I think you need to have a licence
per new PC which translates into I believe a component which could mean a
useless floppy drive.

Have you ever gone and bought a car and asked for different tires?  Have you
ever gone to install a stereo and have them tell you that the warrantee is
voided unless you have them install their brand (which is actually just the
same as what you can buy cheaper elsewhere with the manufacturer label
removed).  Did you know that your "gourmet" cookies are made by same
companies as make your "non gourmet" cookies...did you know that the Coffee
industry is single handedly ruining communities in LA to buy mass produced
cheap coffee from Vietnam?

Every business uses tie ins...That's how RJR, Walmart, Nestle get so big and
all encompassing.....Playmakers on ESPN won't be shown next season in the US
because of pressure from the bed friend the NFL.  It's all about the
money...

> >
> >> Unless he
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> > claim them as their own.
Companies don't innovate.  People do.  Companies profit.

> > A recent claim by MS was that there was no innovation in browsers.
> > Certainly there has been no innovation by _MS_, all the innovation was
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> > had to be.
Also as a result we have mozilla which is open source and not microsoft...do
you use that? What about opera? I'm sure you don't.
> Not that there's anything wrong with that.

> > As for 'better' products, they only make them better enough.
> Good enough is good enough.
When is good enough good enough?

> >XP is a
> > better Windows but is not a secure product because MS don't want it to
> > be.
It is not a secure product because nothing is secure.  Anytime your machine
is on a network talking and downloading...it's a target.  Period.
Windows/Linux it's all the same....I've been in this discussion before and I
was told the issue was that MS was too successful so the pattern for hackers
is (a) Find hack (b) Try the 100,000,000 machines and we'll get all of
them....
I used to be on the RedHat list (til they switched to profit mode) and I
daily got notices to apply patches...


> There is no such thing as a secure OS or any other product. Blaming MS for
> the impossible is common amongst MS haters. It's the pathology, you see.
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> And what's wrong with that?
And this is true of the car industry.  The farming industry.  The
telecommunications industry.  The music industry.  The sports industry.
The education industry (yes it's an industry)....etc etc
Not saying it's right, but the great western globalization movement drives
the desire for monopolistic greed...

> > MS will leverage monthly updates into rentals to continue the revenue
> > stream, they will never actually fix the problem because then there
> > will be no need to update or upgrade.
> Maybe. That's why there are so many ant-virus companies, anti-spam tools,
> pop-up blockers, etc. Seems MS is fostering innovation and job creation.

> >> Monopolists are only a bad deal for consumers if the item the
> >> monopolist offers is a consumable - food, transportation,
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> It's good business sense to turn a one-time sale into a repetitive one.

That's the current mantra in every industry.  CRM software is the greatest
example of licencing issues....I read that 75% of licences sold aren't even
used.....now that's marketing.

> >> Let's examine the "good of consumers and commerce" notion. The price
> >> of Windows has not risen appreciably (if at all) since version 1.0
…[9 more quoted lines elided]…
> increased.
The price has not decreased; however, one could argue that it should have
done.  I build machines and the windows licence is roughtly 10-30% the cost
of the machine....throw in MS Office and we get closer to 25-40 %.
Of course nothing compells me to buy microsoft and given that a licence is
the same as my monthly cable bill I am not going to complain...

> > Prices have tracked down continuously for the whole industry _except_
> > for MS.

> They get what the market can stand. If the price were higher, people
> wouldn't buy it; lower and they couldn't make it fast enought. This
> porridege is just about right.
They're a "sorta" monopoly with a huge demand....why make it cheap?
And here is the main point I wanted to make to Richard is this "If Microsoft
were YOUR business, what would you do?"

> >> Commerce? Ye Gods, Micros~1 is one of the nation's leading
> >> exporters,
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> U.S./Microsoft makes good software and trades it to, ah, Japan and gets,
in
> return, perfectly servicable VCRs. And floppy drives.

Unfortunately now we have the WTO which does it's best to regulate in favour
of the money.....

> >> millions of people earn a living using tools crafted by Micros~1,
> >> productivity is at an all time high.
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> and updated by Microsoft. You think, just maybe, they really come from
Honda
> and we're all being fooled?
But the car industry is the most exciting one of all now that you mention
it.  I have a VW and I have parts installed that have the Audi rings on
it....All the motor manufacturers are all in it together.  People are
totally anti-Chevy or Cadillac and totally pro-Saturn or Oldsmobile....but
they are all the same damn conglomerate.
Lexus is Toyota....which is a fact LOST on most Lexus owners.

> >> No, we would all be better off by letting Micros~1 do what it does
> >> best.
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> I hadn't thought of it, but, yes, us too.
And I'm sure that includes all the holders of mutual funds whose portfolios
include MS.

JCE
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-28T14:14:30-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311281414.651f3de4@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com> <ufhxb.95228$86.1157792@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`

```
"jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com> wrote 

> I don't see anyone too terribly po's that MF/Fujitsu/IBM support different
> COBOL extensions....

There is a difference there. Those companies do not manipulate the
product to make it essential to use the extensions to overcome
deficiencies.

MS Java performed very poorly with standard AWT methods, and they
removed the RMI.  This made it essential to use the 'MS way' which in
turn meant that Windows was a requirement.

MS often forces choices so that it must be 'all Windows' or 'no
Windows', and they will change things to break other systems. - The
job ain't done 'til Lotus (oe DR-DOS or Netscape or Linux or Samba or
..) won't run.

> As has been said...Java is not cross platform...it's a single
> platform....rights owned and maintained by Sun.  Protecting that is their
> issue.  If it wasn't they would let the product go.

Not only protecting Java but protecting the security model that
protects its users.
 
> I think that this America's great paradox.....on the one had the great
> capitalist machine wants you to be a gazillionaire...

Well, no, they don't want _you_ to be a gazillionaire, they want
_themselves_ to be that, and everyone else to be nice compliant
consumers, especially the rest of the world. It is exactly like the
Nigerian scam: "we can make you rich beyond adverise, in the mean time
just send us some money".

In MS's case they show some flakey statistics that attempts to relate
buying MS products with increases in productivity.  The object being
that if you send _even_more_ money to MS then you will get additional
benefits.

> Bill Gates gives money to the AIDS crisis - but at
> the same time he invests heavily in US biotech companies that are protected
> by the WTO.  No doubt if there is ever a cure found for AIDS Bill Gates is
> more likely to make more money than he's giving away.

More importantly by supplying some free AIDS drugs he is preventing
those countries from changing legislation so they could get cheaper
versions (ripoffs).  Anyway he is probably getting more in tax
benefits than the cost.

> Spyglass should have read the fine print.

There was no fine print.  It was a simple scam. When IE was bundled as
part of Windows then it _was_ being sold, especially when MS claimed
that it could not be removed in court.
 
> Why is it no one is smart enough to out legalese MS?

In most cases because MS will just continue litigation until everyone
else runs out of money.  The law is almost irrelevant, it is the money
that will win.

Actually MS has lost many cases, but it manages to hide them or
misrepresent them.  Money buys a lot of spin doctors.

> Have you ever gone and bought a car and asked for different tires?  

There is a difference.  If I want Michelin tires I can buy a Citroen
or Renault. If I want Pirellis I can buy a FIAT.  I don't find every
brand of car has the same tires on them.  Nor do I find petrol
stations that will only fill Fords.

In fact when I look at dealer options I _can_ ask for different brands
of tires, though these may in option packs.

> Also as a result we have mozilla which is open source and not microsoft...do
> you use that? What about opera? I'm sure you don't.

I certainly do, and I use them because they have innovations that IE
is talking about catching up to: Tabbed windows, pop-up suppression,
mouse gestures, ..

> Of course nothing compells me to buy microsoft 

They are still working on that. For many OEM customers they did
compell with 'per box pricing', they did compell with 'commitment
pricing' (which still applies in some cases).

> And here is the main point I wanted to make to Richard is this "If Microsoft
> were YOUR business, what would you do?"

Go broke probably.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** "jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2003-12-02T03:54:27+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<T1Uyb.35797$Cv6.23341@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com> <ufhxb.95228$86.1157792@twister.tampabay.rr.com> <217e491a.0311281414.651f3de4@posting.google.com>`

```
"Richard" <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote in message
news:217e491a.0311281414.651f3de4@posting.google.com...
> "jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com> wrote
> > And here is the main point I wanted to make to Richard is this "If
Microsoft
> > were YOUR business, what would you do?"
>
> Go broke probably.

Selflessless is easy when you don't have anything to be selfish over....

But I respect your ideals and if everyone was the same then we would be a
better world for it I'm sure....

JCE
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** LX-i <lxi0007@netscape.net>
- **Date:** 2003-11-28T17:39:34-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<vsfn5k9hrsg5e4@corp.supernews.com>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<ufhxb.95228$86.1157792@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com> <ufhxb.95228$86.1157792@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`

```
jce wrote:
> Playmakers on ESPN won't be shown next season in the US
> because of pressure from the bed friend the NFL.  It's all about the
> money...

Source?  (I hate to hear that - that was a pretty good show...)
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** "jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2003-12-02T03:56:22+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<G3Uyb.35798$Cv6.11872@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com> <ufhxb.95228$86.1157792@twister.tampabay.rr.com> <vsfn5k9hrsg5e4@corp.supernews.com>`

```
It was on Real Sports (HBO)...It has been in various spots - Sports
Illustrated I believe...and then the local paper St Pete Times...

I called it after the first episode because this has a precedent with
another show I used to watch.....

It's a shame because I really enjoyed it, also....it's like a trash sports
soap opera...

JCE

"LX-i" <lxi0007@netscape.net> wrote in message
news:vsfn5k9hrsg5e4@corp.supernews.com...
> jce wrote:
> > Playmakers on ESPN won't be shown next season in the US
…[17 more quoted lines elided]…
>
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 11)_

- **From:** LX-i <lxi0007@netscape.net>
- **Date:** 2003-12-02T18:15:21-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<vsqaoq42k2n244@corp.supernews.com>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<G3Uyb.35798$Cv6.11872@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com> <ufhxb.95228$86.1157792@twister.tampabay.rr.com> <vsfn5k9hrsg5e4@corp.supernews.com> <G3Uyb.35798$Cv6.11872@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`

```
jce wrote:
> It was on Real Sports (HBO)...It has been in various spots - Sports
> Illustrated I believe...and then the local paper St Pete Times...
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> soap opera...

Thanks.  (I'm not any happier, but thanks...  :>  )
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T11:05:18-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311271105.723034bc@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com>`

```
"JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote 

> Slick, here's a flash. It is not against the laws of God or man to be a
> monopoly. 

Many countries do have laws that prevent a company, or cartel, from
_using_ that monopoly for certain things.

> By consent decree, unfair business practices have stopped with no
> admission of wrong-doing. The courts haven't found squat.

Whether they have _actually_ stopped is a matter of conjecture.  One
of the things that is illegal in the US is using the leverage in one
market to gain entry to another.  MS is spending billions from Windows
and Office sales by subsidising XBox as it attempts to take over the
games console market.

> Who give a shit about Netscape? 

Who gives a shit for the corner store when Wal-Mart moves into town. 
Who gives a shit for the local farmers when the SuperMarket buys
globally.  Who gives a shit for JerryMouse when the corporate
outsources IT to India.

> A price of zero for a browser is certainly a
> boon for tens of millions. 

Who would have gladly paid a few dollars for the product.  But paying
for it may have led to those millions making a choice about where
those dollars went and which browser they _actually_ wanted.  MS
couldn't allow that.

> Heh, heh. Too bad for Spyglass. Dumbasses. It's Darwinism, you see.

So is those dumbasses in Iraq getting shot.  Its just Darwinism.

> So what? Again, zero dollars is good for consumers. Who gives a shit about
> DR-DOS?

Because DR-DOS was a far better product.  MS monopoly leads to
inferior products that are used because there is 'nothing else', or
because someone (MS) has decided that it must be on the machine that
is sold.

> No, the purpose of bringing down the price of kerosene was to generate a
> market. Before cheap kerosene, when it got dark people had nothing to do but
> breed. And tend mushrooms.

What crap. As you already said there was whale oil, there was also
candles and other oils.  It may have expanded the market, but the
pricing was to create a monopoly by driving the others out of
business.
 
> > This is why MS tried to make selling a computer without an OS
> > 'illegal' by the box makers, or at least a breach of reseller
> > agreements.  With XP you cannot replace the hardware and keep the old
> > OS, you must buy a new copy.
 
> MS could not make selling a blank-box illegal; 

It is still working on that. MS's plan to control with DRM will only
work if laws are passed to enforce it.  Already this has been
proposed.

> MS has a lot of power, but
> not the power necessary to put someone in jail. 

They have their 'subsiduary' BSA to do that.

> Re-seller "tying" agreements
> are the norm in almost every business (if you're a grocer, you can't stock
> Pepsi unless you agree to stock Mountain Dew). 

What is illegal is if there are incentives to _not_ stock competitors
products.  At one time MS was paying OEMs $5 to remove Netscape and
install IE.

> With XP you may install the
> OS on as many machines as you want - just not more than one at a time.

XP requires validation and checks certain ids on components.  If more
than a certain number of changes are made to a computer the OS
complains that it needs a new validation.

Also, read the EULA for a machine from say, Gateway, and you will find
that the licence is _only_ for the the original machine and the
original purchaser.  It is against the licence to remove the OS from
that machine and install it on a different machine.

If the machine is sold then it is also against the licence to pass on
the OS, according to the EULA a new copy of XP must be purchased by
the new owner, even if the OS was not installed on another machine.

> Good enough is good enough.

Of course some would say that Windows is not 'good enough' for some
purposes and is 'too good' (overly complex) for other purposes.

> There is no such thing as a secure OS or any other product. Blaming MS for
> the impossible is common amongst MS haters. It's the pathology, you see.

Windows is an insecure OS _by_design_, or specifically by lack of
design.
 
> >They want to keep the threat of viruses, piracy and attacks
> > because those are from non-MS parties.  MS can keep offering 'better'
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> And what's wrong with that?

Because, as in the point above, Windows _could_ be a more secure OS to
the benefit of the consumers, but that would affect MS revenues, so it
isn't.

When MS talks about 'more security' it actually means 'more security
for MS revenues'.  More security against piracy of MS products, more
revenue by offering secure access to music and films via DRM.


> Maybe. That's why there are so many ant-virus companies, anti-spam tools,
> pop-up blockers, etc. Seems MS is fostering innovation and job creation.

You may note that MS is moving into those markets too.  Soon all that
revenue will be MS's.  MS has already announced that it will block
pop-ups with the next IE.  You can be sure, though, that the blocking
will be selective.  Pop-ups will still appear if MS gets some revenue
from the advertiser for not blocking them.

MS will have their own version of these tools so that it can justify
the next upgrade of Windows, or, more likely, move more to annual
rental with expiring.  This is already the model for anti-virus to
ensure the latest viruses are blocked.

MS will simply build that into the business model.  In fact MS may be
writing some of those viruses as 'punishment' for not updating and
agreeing to latest EULA and terms and conditions.
 
> It's good business sense to turn a one-time sale into a repetitive one.

OTOH it is good business sense for the buyers to turn repetitive sales
into one-time purchases.  You are only looking at MS as having a tame
and compliant user base who will roll over and fork out gratefully for
every little offering from MS.

> > You seem to think that is attributable to MS only.  In fact many of
> > those tools were _not_ crafted by MS at all, they were bought in to
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> and updated by Microsoft. 

In many cases MS bought products, _not_ to sell them but to bury them,
to remove them from the market place so that they didn't interfere
with MS's control.  They tried to buy Quicken to bury it but they were
refused.

> You think, just maybe, they really come from Honda
> and we're all being fooled?

MS C came from Lattice.  SQL server from Sybase, Front Page from Front
Page Inc, IE from Mosaic via SpyGlass, MS-DOS from SCP, FoxPro from
Fox, Word was a copy of BravoX, ...

Specifically relevant for this group MS Cobol came from Microfocus.

In many cases cars 'really do come from Honda', for example some
Triumphs and Rovers.  Some Fords come from Mazda, some Pontiacs come
from Opel.

Whether you are being fooled is another issue.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** "Howard Brazee" <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2003-12-01T14:32:22+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<bqfjdm$oag$1@peabody.colorado.edu>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com>`

```

On 26-Nov-2003, "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote:

> "Standard" = Monopoly by he who sets the standard.

What's bad is when we have a de jure standard and a de facto standard which
don't agree with each other.   For instance Opera has chosen to follow the de
jure standard, but most people write web pages to work with IE, which does not
follow that standard.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** "jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2003-12-02T04:00:50+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<S7Uyb.35799$Cv6.18648@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <bdWdnQIkxs1B41iiU-KYiw@giganews.com> <bqfjdm$oag$1@peabody.colorado.edu>`

```
"Howard Brazee" <howard@brazee.net> wrote in message
news:bqfjdm$oag$1@peabody.colorado.edu...
>
> On 26-Nov-2003, "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote:
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> What's bad is when we have a de jure standard and a de facto standard
which
> don't agree with each other.   For instance Opera has chosen to follow the
de
> jure standard, but most people write web pages to work with IE, which does
not
> follow that standard.

...or if you have an awesome product that fills a hole in a library (Logging
for example)....and then a standard comes along (Java Logging API) that
doesn't follow your particular model and...well....you have to change to be
acceptable....

or

you turn around and the standard (API) changes every time you look around
and the once backward compatible promise is no more...

JCE
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** "Hugh Candlin" <no@spam.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-27T06:59:51+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<Hhhxb.117972$Ec1.5082537@bgtnsc05-news.ops.worldnet.att.net>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com>`

```

Richard <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote in message news:217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com...
>
> This is why MS tried to make selling a computer without an OS
> 'illegal' by the box makers, or at least a breach of reseller
> agreements.  With XP you cannot replace the hardware and keep the old
> OS, you must buy a new copy.

That is simply untrue.  You can install XP on a replacement computer.

You'll be telling us next that you cannot install Office
on more than one machine.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** "jce" <defaultuser@hotmail.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-28T06:32:01+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<BZBxb.12668$Cv6.1475@twister.tampabay.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <3FC3A985.334ECE5E@shaw.ca> <20031125170024.908$KG@news.newsreader.com> <3FC430BB.AA109250@shaw.ca> <p5-dnQFgWvrzNlmiU-KYhw@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com> <Hhhxb.117972$Ec1.5082537@bgtnsc05-news.ops.worldnet.att.net>`

```

"Hugh Candlin" <no@spam.com> wrote in message
news:Hhhxb.117972$Ec1.5082537@bgtnsc05-news.ops.worldnet.att.net...
>
> Richard <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote in message
news:217e491a.0311261709.6b657de4@posting.google.com...
> >
> > This is why MS tried to make selling a computer without an OS
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> on more than one machine.

This is taken directly from the EULA which I am *ABSOLUTELY SURE* you have
read....

I believe this says you cannot TRANSFER the licence to a different computer.
The fact that they won't catch you - or even know - is irrelevant.


* Software as a Component of the Computer - Transfer.  THIS LICENSE MAY NOT
BE SHARED, TRANSFERRED TO OR USED CONCURRENTLY ON DIFFERENT COMPUTERS.  The
SOFTWARE is licensed with the COMPUTER as a single integrated product and
may only be used with the COMPUTER.  If the SOFTWARE is not accompanied by
HARDWARE, you may not use the SOFTWARE.  You may permanently transfer all of
your rights under this EULA only as part of a permanent sale or transfer of
the COMPUTER, provided you retain no copies, if you transfer the SOFTWARE
(including all component parts, the media, any upgrades, this EULA and the
Certificate of Authenticity), and the recipient agrees to the terms of this
EULA.


You can get around this if you keep the component with which the software is
integrated (hard drive/cable wire) if you read the following:


SOFTWARE PRODUCT LICENSE
The term "COMPUTER" as used herein shall mean the HARDWARE, if the HARDWARE
is a single computer system, or shall mean the computer system with which
the HARDWARE operates, if the
HARDWARE is a computer system component.


JCE
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

- **From:** "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T16:48:18-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<C7OdnSLgOt6uQV6iU-KYkg@giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com>`

```
Richard wrote:
> "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote
>
…[21 more quoted lines elided]…
> solution.  Do you really believe marketing hype ?

Judson,

Richard has missed the mark by a wide margin.

Firstly, Microsoft abandonded Java because Sun didn't want MS to improve the
efficiency or usablility of Java in a Windows environment. Sun, who decided
only they will control Java (and by doing so, hoped to eventually supplant
MS in the OS market), refused to allow users, through MS extentions to Java,
to have a more up-to-date product. So MS said: "Hey, it's your ball. Take it
and play in your own sandlot."

As for promoting "what suits them," Micros~1 is only doing what's best for
its customers. Of course by so doing, they help themselves, but I assure you
Micros~1's motives are entirely altruistic.

Marketing hype should certainly be separated from marketing fact. Nine
months with no progress (with Java) vs ten weeks (with COBOL) to a completed
transition is a fact.

Full disclosure:
The "fact" that I own a shit-load of Micros~1 stock had no influence on the
above observations.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T22:38:55-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311252238.2b6887e1@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <C7OdnSLgOt6uQV6iU-KYkg@giganews.com>`

```
"JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote 

> Richard has missed the mark by a wide margin.

By that you mean: I don't support MS by a wide margin.
 
> Firstly, Microsoft abandonded Java because Sun didn't want MS to improve the
> efficiency or usablility of Java in a Windows environment. 

MS added 'features' to Java so that the resulting programs would
_only_ run on Windows machines.  This is how MS tries to control the
market place.

> Sun, who decided only they will control Java 

It is their product.

> (and by doing so, hoped to eventually supplant
> MS in the OS market), 

All MS apologists seem to have this idea that _everyone_ wants to have
100% of all market share.  This is not true.  It is only MS that wants
to have 100% of everything.  Sun wants to hold an advantage that will
allow them to _survive_ and not to be trampled underfoot by MS as most
other companies have been.

Sun wants to _survive_ in the OS market, MS wants to eliminate them.

> refused to allow users, through MS extentions to Java,
> to have a more up-to-date product. 

The MS extensions were nothing to do with 'up-to-date', they were to
do with MS-only.  It is the standard MS strategy, it was disallowed by
the licence MS had bought for the product, as determined by the court.
 MS did not want to abide by the terms of the licence.

> So MS said: "Hey, it's your ball. Take it
> and play in your own sandlot."

You've been reading far too much from MS marketing droids to
understand anything else.
 
> As for promoting "what suits them," Micros~1 is only doing what's best for
> its customers. Of course by so doing, they help themselves, but I assure you
> Micros~1's motives are entirely altruistic.

ROFL
 
> Marketing hype should certainly be separated from marketing fact. Nine
> months with no progress (with Java) vs ten weeks (with COBOL) to a completed
> transition is a fact.

What they failed to mention was whether the replacement project was in
any way as ambitious as the original.
 
> Full disclosure:
> The "fact" that I own a shit-load of Micros~1 stock had no influence on the
> above observations.

Yeah, right.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T07:46:39-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<pfidnSSvNf1dM1miU-KYhA@giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <C7OdnSLgOt6uQV6iU-KYkg@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311252238.2b6887e1@posting.google.com>`

```
Richard wrote:
> "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote
>
>> Richard has missed the mark by a wide margin.
>
> By that you mean: I don't support MS by a wide margin.

Isn't it somewhat presumptious of you to attribute my understanding of your
motivations? There is no nefarious plot - I simply state you were wrong.

>
>> Firstly, Microsoft abandonded Java because Sun didn't want MS to
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> market place.

Right. MS wanted to make Jave more efficient and usable on a Windows
machine. MS certainly had no incentive to make Jave more usable on a Mac or
a refrigerator. I would use the phrase "make Java more valuable to its
users" than "control the market place."

>
>> Sun, who decided only they will control Java
…[12 more quoted lines elided]…
> Sun wants to _survive_ in the OS market, MS wants to eliminate them.

Not according to McNeely. "We will drive Microsoft out of business."

>> So MS said: "Hey, it's your ball. Take it
>> and play in your own sandlot."
>
> You've been reading far too much from MS marketing droids to
> understand anything else.

Again, arrant presumptiousness on your part regarding what I read and who
writes it. I don't read anything from MS marketing droids. I get my
information directly from the internet where it's been vetted by millions.

>
>> Marketing hype should certainly be separated from marketing fact.
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> any way as ambitious as the original.

They also failed to mention that the MS-oriented team was visited by an
Incan Monkey God who gave them all the code they needed in just one night.
Perhaps neither were mentioned because neither happened. We don't know.

>
>> Full disclosure:
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> Yeah, right.

Ah, finally we agree on something.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** riplin@Azonic.co.nz (Richard)
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T10:35:41-08:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<217e491a.0311261035.77c3c4a3@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <C7OdnSLgOt6uQV6iU-KYkg@giganews.com> <217e491a.0311252238.2b6887e1@posting.google.com> <pfidnSSvNf1dM1miU-KYhA@giganews.com>`

```
"JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote 

> > By that you mean: I don't support MS by a wide margin.
> 
> Isn't it somewhat presumptious of you to attribute my understanding of your
> motivations? There is no nefarious plot - I simply state you were wrong.

If I want your opinions I will read MS marketing droids.
 
> >> Firstly, Microsoft abandonded Java because Sun didn't want MS to
> >> improve the efficiency or usablility of Java in a Windows
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> machine. 

MS wanted to make it run _only_ on Windows machines.  It added
'features' to give a lock in to Windows.

> MS certainly had no incentive to make Jave more usable on a Mac or
> a refrigerator.

It wanted to make Java broken on those.  Java programs developed on
Windows would not run on Mac or refrigerator, the 'answer' is: buy
Windows for running those.

> I would use the phrase "make Java more valuable to its
> users" than "control the market place."

Yes, you probably would.  That is what MS _wants_ your opinion to be. 
Use the 'more valuable' 'features' so that your users have to buy MS
products.
 
> > Sun wants to _survive_ in the OS market, MS wants to eliminate them.
> 
> Not according to McNeely. "We will drive Microsoft out of business."

That is the _only_ way to survive against a monopolistic juggernaut.


> Again, arrant presumptiousness on your part regarding what I read and who
> writes it. I don't read anything from MS marketing droids. I get my
> information directly from the internet 

MSN then is it ?
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

- **From:** Joe Zitzelberger <joe_zitzelberger@nospam.com>
- **Date:** 2003-11-26T08:37:41-05:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<joe_zitzelberger-CEBC49.08374126112003@corp.supernews.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com> <C7OdnSLgOt6uQV6iU-KYkg@giganews.com>`

```
In article <C7OdnSLgOt6uQV6iU-KYkg@giganews.com>,
 "JerryMouse" <nospam@bisusa.com> wrote:

> Judson,
> 
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> and play in your own sandlot."

Breaking Java's built in memory protection and anti-dangling pointer 
scheme by allowing direct access to pointers without an intermediate 
handle is not an enhancement.  It is a violation of the sandbox security 
rules.

Making a hash of the default system colors so that JVMs on other 
machines/oses are not able to accurately present applications and 
applets to users -- and applications and applets compiled on other 
machines/oses look garish and illegible on windows is also not an 
enhancement.  It is intimidation of developers -- use our stuff or else.


> As for promoting "what suits them," Micros~1 is only doing what's best for
> its customers. Of course by so doing, they help themselves, but I assure you
> Micros~1's motives are entirely altruistic.

Tell it to the folks at Stac Technology...
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: Believe me, you WANT to read this!

- **From:** LX-i <lxi0007@netscape.net>
- **Date:** 2003-11-25T17:59:56-06:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<vs7r816v6lvf9c@corp.supernews.com>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com>`
- **References:** `<20031125055735.696$o8@news.newsreader.com> <217e491a.0311251017.7237e99@posting.google.com>`

```
Richard wrote:
> "Judson McClendon" <judmc@sunvaley0.com> wrote 
> 
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> C#.

Did you read the link?  That's not what the case study was about at all. 
  A company dumped their Java/Oracle "modernization" project in lieu of 
a .NET solution that they were able to implement in 2 1/2 months, with 
Fujitsu's CICS migration tools.

>>and went back to salvaging their COBOL.  
> 
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> while it suits them.

Again, the salvage was the organization in question, not Microsoft 
themselves...
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
