[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# CoBOL Programmers Aren't Smart Enuf or Fast Enuf

_4 messages · 2 participants · 2014-08_

---

### CoBOL Programmers Aren't Smart Enuf or Fast Enuf

- **From:** "klshafer" <ua-author-14501353@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 2014-08-14T09:18:01+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8686c070-1ac4-4de0-887c-08378cee318d@googlegroups.com>`

```
What to make of the following? I stumbled upon it looking for evidence that Java/J2EE was used in SSA's Disability System rewrite.

This is an excerpt from a LinkedIn resume. Note that EACH of his engagements is typically six or seven months. Note also the INCREDIBLE number of bullet point accomplishments under each engagement.

Questions that come to mind...

Is this guy for real? Or is he really good at copy and paste from Grand Architecture Design Documents?

How many systems that he worked on did he stay long enough to see into production?

Please, please forgive me for the length of what follows... I actually left out a number of his other engagements. I publish the rest not for you to read in its entirety, but just to get a feel for how he is "portraying" himself.

Thoughts??

Ken

Begin LinkedIn excerpt:



Baltimore-MD

Lockheed Martin



July 2011 to February 2012

Disability Claim Processing System (DCPS)
Sr Java/J2EE Consultant
Client:SSA-MD
The DCPS supports SSA's disability workload which consumes over half of SSA's operational work. DDS Administrators representing each region along with SSA executive staff representing the federal case processing partners have been working together toward the goal of creating a common case processing system for all partners engaged in adjudicating disability Disability applications are filed by the public via the internet, by phone, or in person at one of the agency's local field offices. The field office determines basic technical eligibility requirements. Thereafter, if the basic eligibly requirements are met, the field office routes the claim to a disability determination case processing site (DDS's), which could be a state or federal component. The DDS's is responsible for the medical determination for the disability. In the event of a denial of the disability, the public has the right to file for reconsiderations and appeals of unfavorable decisions. The reconsiderations are processed at the state DDS's and appeals are processed federally by a SSA hearing office.
Responsibilities:
* Involved in design and development phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
* Lead a team of developers: assigning tasks based an aptitude, tracking progress, mentoring, and code reviews and conducting daily scrum meetings.
* Developed and implemented POC for Correspondence module by generating the documents using Thunderhead product as per the business requirement and architectural design using Struts, Hibernate, Webservices and Thunderhead API's
* Implemented Hibernate for database interaction and as data persistence layer.
* Developed the components for the module Correspondence using Struts, Hibernate and WebServices, dojo and Jquery.
* Responsible for setting up IOC pattern using Spring Framework which communicates with various service layers.
* Participates in other meetings, such as those for use case creation and analysis.
* Performed unit testing and writen appropriate unit test plans to ensure requirements are satisfied. Assisted in integration, systems, acceptance testing as needed.
Environment:J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, XHTM, JavaScript, Dojo, JQuery, JBPM, Drools, Struts (2.0), Spring3.0, Hibernate3.0, JMS, WebServices (SOAP/Restfull), XML, JUnit, EasyMock, PMD, Websphere Server7.0, Rational Application Developer (RAD8.0), DB2, Windows7.



Sr Java/J2ee Weblogic portal (11gR1) Consultant

VerizonWireless (VZW), Orangeburg



October 2010 to June 2011

The AboutYou portal is an intranet based WebSphere6.0 portal application which provides access to users of Verizon Wireless to their personal and business information for review and lets the user take any action as required.This Websphere portal application which was in production environment has been migrated to Oracle10gR3 portal by following JSR168 and JSR286 standards. The portal mashes up information from various data sources and presents it to user. It integrates with external systems viz., Fidelity NetBenefits, WebMD, IncentOne, PeopleSoft modules, Payroll Live chat, etc.
The About You portal is sectioned into a homepage plus five verticals: "Money", "Health", "Career & Learning", "VZW Culture", and "Work/Life".

Home - Serves users with personal and business information in addition to presenting users with action-required remainders that require user prompt attention. Users' personal information is mashed up to provide easy access to it for any updates or modifications as intended by the user.
Money - This vertical presents the user with compensation information in addition to employment and retirement savings.
Health - This vertical presents the user with Health related information, access to health insurance data and resources to remain as a healthy workforce.
Career & Learning - This vertical provides users with information and resources to improve and enhance their skills. This section also has links to direct users to mandatory corporate learning.
VZW Culture - This vertical provides users with information about VZW's credo, diversity measures, code of conduct, and links to the Verizon Foundation.
Work/Life - This vertical provides users with access to employee discounts, time off information, employee phone program information, as well as other resources pertaining to the user's work-life balance.

Responsibilities:
* Extensively involved in the review and analysis of business requirements, documenting the requirements and design and communicating the development approach to the development team.
* Developed and implemented POC for all the verticals as per the business requirement and architecture design.
* Migrated all portal componenets from websphere to Oracle weblogic portal 11gR1.
* Customized and developed Look&Feel for all portal components such as desktop (File based & Streaming), portlets, pages&books using advanced CSS and JavaScript.
* Design & Development of Custom 'AboutYou' portal for Verizon Wireless Employees from scratch.
* Designing Java J2EE Portals conforming to JSR 286/168 specifications for a generic architecture.
* Migrated & Developed portal related content using SiteStudio (10gR4) and integrated with oracle UCM and fetched the content from UCM thru RIDC calls to UCM.
* Developed jsp, JSR168, JSR 286, Java portlets adhering to JSR168/286 standards.
* Implemented Ajax framework for jsp, java, JSR 168&286 portlets to drive content from UCM to portal asynchronously.
* Implemented event based mechanism for publishing and processing events using spring portal event handling.
* Responsible for setting up IOC & MVC pattern using Spring Framework which communicates with various service layers and configuring the spring xml files.
* Used Hibernate as the ORM mapping framework to interact with database by configuring the XML files.
* Developed AD authentication mechanism for users to authenticate and authorize users from active directory.
* Deployed the application on the development, testing boxes.
* Work closely with the product architect on design, dependencies and code and mentored developers on all technical aspects of work.
Environment: J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, XHTM, JavaScript, Dojo, JPF, NetUI, Spring3.0, Hibernate3.0, JMS, Java security, WebServices (SOAP), XML, JSON, JNDI/LDAP, XML, JUnit, EasyMock Oracle Universal Content Management (UCM), Weblogic Portal Server10.3.2, WeblogicWorkshop11gR1 (IDE), Oracle 11g, WindowsXP.



Sr Weblogic Portal

TIAA-CREF
-

Charlotte, NC



April 2010 to September 2010

10.3) /J2ee Lead Consultant
Transaction Portal is an intranet enterprise portal application was envisioned to provide a single seamless user interface for a multitude of internal applications used by different groups of TIAA-CREF employees. It marks the onset of data persistence using IBM MDM, provides a Service Oriented Architecture using Restful Web Services and implements entitlements, authorization, authentication and data presentation using Oracle WebLogic Portal. During the first phase of this project, a mainframe application 'COR/NAD' used by customer service agents was re-engineered as 'CDMS' (Client Data Maintenance Services) -as a part the Transaction Portal.

CLIENT DESCRIPTION
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association - College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF) is one of the largest financial services companies in the United States. The organization helps meet the financial needs of approximately 3.6 million individuals and 15, 000 institutions in the academic, research, medical, cultural and non-profit fields. Much of TIAA-CREF operates on a non-profit basis, with surplus returned to participants. TIAA-CREF is headquartered in New York City and has major offices in Denver, Colorado; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Dallas, Texas; as well as 60 local offices throughout the United States. The company ranks 86th on Fortune's list of the 500 largest corporations in America.
Responsibilities:
* Extensively involved in the review and analysis of business requirements, documenting the requirements and design and communicating the development approach to the development team.
* Involved in the preparation of TDD based on the BRD, FRD and wireframes and got approved by the higher authorities and started coding according to the TDD with the team for the new upcoming projects Enhanced Income Illustrations (EII) and Custom Life Cycle (CLC)
* Involved in right from requirement gathering to TDD documenting and in development with the team as per the TDD document.
* Developed POC for the upcoming new project Enhanced Income Illustrations (EII) with weblogic portal by creating users in the TIAA CREF Active directory and configured on my local system in the weblogic admin console and applied entitlements and authenticators and demonstarted to the manager and proved that it satisfies all business requirements of the appl.
* Perform hands-on software development tasks, such as feature development, bug fixing, unit testing and writing automated functional tests.
* Work closely with the product architect on design, dependencies and code and mentored developers on all technical aspects of work.
* Provided time and size estimates for project deliverables and that quality goals are met with in the budget.
* Achieved organizational integration, assimilate job requirements, employ new ideas, concepts, methods, and technologies with outstanding communication and interpersonal capabilities and involved in code reviews and tuned the appl for high performance.
* Translating architecture requirements into design decisions by working with the development team.
* Worked on Weblogic Portal Administration for creating end users, user groups, defining rules, delegated administration, visitor entitlements, content management, service administration and portal security management.
* Created Custom Authenticators and configured SQL and LDAP Authenticators.
* Tied Roles to Groups and roles which are pulled from SQL and Active Directory creating authenticators in Weblogic Security Realms.
* Created and Mapped Active Directory LDAP Users and Groups using LDAP & AD Authenticators.
* Implemented Campaign Management using Bea Repository.
* Used and created Content Selectors on Place holders and content holders by querying the Content from BEA VCR to retire the contents basing on the types configuring using Oracle UCM.
* Used Bulkloader scripts to populate data from Oracle UCM to Bea VCR.
* Used RIDC calls to pull the content from UCM and VCR Adapter to connect to UCM.
* Created ADD campaign Managements and targeted end clients basing on the Profile values that are populated using Unified user Profiles and Property sets.
* Extensive use of Netui tags of the Weblogic portal framework for the data popup. Written various front-end components using Weblogic netui tags.
* Created visitor entitlement for Desktop and Portlets and propagated from development environment to test, then staging environment.
* Web application flow using JavaPageFlows and JSP's using netui tags.
* Developed UUP to get the user information from Active Directory server.
* Followed on JSR 168 portal standards.
* Used Oracle Coherence for caching.
* Responsible for handling the IPC with event handling and backing files.
* Developed Portlets like JSP/HTML Portlets, Java Portlet, and Page flow Portlets, Struts Portlets and remote Portlets.
* Customized WLP Skins/Skeletons/Shells/Themes for Portals to have consistent rich user experience.
* Used Propagation scripts and Propagation tool and Import Export XIP tool to Propagate Portal resources from one environment to other.
* WebLogic Workshop (Eclipse) 10.3 used as IDE tool for Web portal application development and debugging and Weblogic10.3 Server.
* Creating Roles & Desktops and assign the roles to portlets based on Users/Groups using weblogic portal admin.
* Used/worked and Created JPF controllers, controls-JDBC, Custom, Data Binding, Data Grids, Nested Page flows, Shared Page flows, JPF Validations and Netui tags in JSPs, Inter portlet communication (IPC) using Backing files
* Worked with Bea Support Engineers for the Cases opened, and getting patches for the product bugs which was found in 10.3 version like memory management issues.
* Deployed the application on the development, testing and staging boxes.
* Involved in Unit/Integration testing before code move into Production.
* Created and Modified Ant build files for creating war file, executing SQL scripts, executing JUnit test cases.
* Delivered Tar files for deploying into Unix Boxes.
Environment:J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, XHTM, JavaScript, Ajax, Dojo, JPF, NetUI, Spring2.5, JSF2.0, Hibernate3.0, Java security, Rest WebServices (SOAP/REST), ( JAX-RPC), XML, JSON, JAXP, JUnit, EasyMock, JNDI/LDAP, XML, Oracle Coherence (Cache), Oracle UCM, Weblogic Portal Server10.3, WeblogicWorkshop10.3 (IDE), Oracle 11g, WindowsXP.



Sr Java/J2ee/Weblogic Portal Lead

Pacific Gas & Electricity Co



October 2009 to March 2010

The Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) has implemented a solution to satisfy a California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) mandate to introduce dynamic pricing for electric usage to the customer base. PG&E is developing a new functionality, rebuild, re-platform, and enhance existing functionality of web applications, and re-architect the middleware layer upon which it all sits to handle the additional complexity, user activity, and data throughout expected to accompany the rollout of dynamic pricing.
This work focuses on the architecture, applications, and technical design of the website in order to enable the functionality and customer experience necessary for a successful transition to PG&E's dynamic pricing.
MARA Portal is website for PG&E commercial / residential customers to manage accounts online can pay bills, view messages, alerts from the PG&E.
Responsibilities:
* Worked extensively with Weblogic in developing portlets in the Portal application.
* Worked with Dynamic Visitor Tools and Inter Portlet Communication in Weblogic10.3.
* Implemented in creating Portals, Portlets, books, pages, desktops, Portal look and feel like Skins, skeletons, shells, and themes, layouts and menus and worked with place holders, events, content selectors, campaigns.
* Developed several portlets for Oracle Portal Server using JSR 168 specifications.
* Developed custom UUP for the application for pulling custom information like custom groups from the Active Directory.
* Utilized LDAP Server to authenticate users for filing claims to access application.
* Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS)
* Implemented application utilizing layers and div tags, controlled by CSS and JavaScript.
* Worked with Weblogic Portal Administration for creating end users, user groups, defining rules, delegated administration, visitor entitlements, and portal security management.
* Worked with interaction management like campaigns, content selectors, place holders, user segments and worked with portal administration Content management Written JavaScript for front end Validation.
* Utilized NetUI for the front end system development for the better user interaction with the web
* Worked with AquaLogic Service Bus allows you to manage Web services and delivered message brokering through the configuration of proxy services in the AquaLogic Service Bus Console.
* Designed and developed server side components using EJB (Session Beans and DAO) utilizing various Java and J2EE design patterns.
* Implemented AJAX for the better performance of the system and partial page rendering
* Involved in web designing using HTML and JavaScript
* Developed Security interface for the Web services (SOA)
* Developed, Published and Subscribed model Message Driven Beans (MDB) for Communicating between clients.
* Integrated Portal application with spring framework.
* Developed different GUI screens JSPs using NetUI, HTML, DHTML and CSS to design the Pages according to Client Experience Workbench Standards.
* Used AJAX to make asynchronous calls to the server and manipulating the Document Object Model (DOM) of the HTML page.
* Implemented object/relational persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.
* Used XML DOM Document object to parse the XML data.
* Designed generic database Connection Pooling with JDBC using Oracle and involved in the SQL query optimization.
* Used Design patterns MVC2, Facades, Business delegates and Transfer objects.
* Analyzed Object Oriented Design and presented with UML Sequence, Use-cases, and Collaboration Diagrams.
* Attending the Joint Application Design sessions with the customers and gathering the requirements and converting the business needs to the technical specifications.
* Project plan, estimation, scheduling and work allocation for portal team.
* Development environment setup and production deployment.
* Code review and guideline creation for development team.
* Responsible for QA and client delivery.
* Team member problem resolving and motivation.
Environment: Java1.5, Weblogic Portal 10.3, Oracle Workshop for WebLogic 10gR3, J2EE, Struts, EJB, Spring, JSF, JMS, WebServices, JSP, NetUI Tag libraries, JavaScript, AJAX, , XML, ANT, ESB, SVN, JUnit, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, UNIX and Oracle10g.



Sr.Weblogic Portal Consultant/Lead

Affinion Group
-

TN, IN



May 2009 to September 2009

Print Portal is a powerful Web site that gives users a single point of access to applications and information in a unified interface.The Affinion portal is the presentation layer of an N Tier architecture implementation. The sole responsibility of the Portal tier is to present data to end users. The portal communicates with Web Services which in turn perform business logic and access persistent data required by the portal.
The Print Production Center in Franklin prints and mails Credit Reports for the Privacy guard product as well as other fulfillment related to NHPA, GRS, Shopping, Auto, CRS for the Trilegiant line of Business. PDNs for the Progeny Insurance Business and Marketing/Membership Materials for the Progeny Packaging business and Welcome Kits and Statements for the TLS - Trilegiant Loyalty Service business are processed in the center.
* The Affinion portal provides a common access point to the Universal Enrollment, Print Fulfillment, Privacy Guard, and Operations Framework Systems. Depending on the user's role, the portal provides users from each system with a desktop or workspace that is customized for the target system.
* Implementing Portal/Integration Architecture Framework.
* Worked on Weblogic Portal Administration for creating end users, user groups, defining rules, delegated administration, visitor entitlements, content management, service administration and portal security management.
* Development of Stream based portlets from the file based portlets.
* Creation of User profiles, groups, roles, Visitor entitlement, User management. Developed and * Implementing Business logic by creating web services, data services, JPD Service controls.
* Implemented custom Weblogic Portal UUP. Developed UUP to get the user information from Active Directory server
* Involved in design and development of JPF's, controls.
* Design of Portal Desktop, books, pages and portlets.
* Extensive use of Netui tags of the Weblogic portal framework for the data popup.
* Mainly Responsible for splitting application as SOA and consuming resources using WSRP.
* Written XML-based standards and transport protocols to exchange data with servers.
* Mainly Responsible in setting up IPC calls between consumers and producers in Remote Portlets. Implemented IPC using backing files.
* Involved in packaging and deployments in all Environments (Development, Stagging, Production)
* Authentication of the users is implemented using LDAP.
* Implemented Object Oriented conceptual models and created classes from the Use cases, organizing the classes into an object model structure using class models.
* Worked with the QA Team, fixed bugs and got the functional testing signed off.
* Raised the SSR's for promoting the code from Development to Stagging and RFC's for promoting to production. Played a Lead role.
* Followed on JSR 168 portal standards.
* Used Tortosise SVN for Version Control.
Environnent: J2SE1.4.x, Weblogic portal 10.2, workshop10.2, Spring2.x, Hibernate3.x, Controls, XML, XML Beans, Schema, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Web Services, XMLSpy, JMS, SVN, Oracle 10g, TOAD, WSRP architecture, JUnit.



Sr. Java-WeblogicPortal Developer

Qwest-Communications



September 2008 to April 2009

Qwest Portal is the ideal network management solution for all Qwest business customers -- from small to medium-sized, multi-location businesses to large enterprise operations. Qportal helps business customers maximize their use of Qwest services such as nationwide ATM and frame relay, dedicated Internet access (DIA), business dial, wholesale dial, dedicated Web hosting, managed firewall private routed networks (PRNs), local service configuration and toll-free services through a simple Web interface that puts customer in control to adjust services based on their unique business needs. Weblogic Portal 10.2 server provides rich interactive capabilities and is being used to fulfill these business needs
Qwest Control Inventory provides the summary of VOIP inventory for the customers who has Qwest VOIP services or products. It is a portlet application which has been integrated with the self service portal (Qcportal) . It provides services like inventory, reports, trouble management etc.
Responsibilities:
* Worked on Weblogic Portal Administration for creating end users, user groups, defining rules, delegated administration, visitor entitlements, content management, service administration and portal security management.
* Created streaming portals using portal admin console.
* Created Custom Authenticators and configured SQL and LDAP Authenticators.
* Tied Roles to Groups and roles which are pulled from SQL and Active Directory creating a authenticators in Weblogic Security Realms.
* Created and Mapped Active Directory LDAP Users and Groups using LDAP AD Authenticators.
* Implemented Campaign Management using Bea Repository.
* Used and created Content Selectors on Place holders and content holders by querying the Content from BEA VCR to retire the contents basing on the types configuring using CMS.
* Used Bulkloader scripts to populate data from CMS to Bea VCR.
* Created ADD campaign Managements and targeted end clients basing on the Profile values that are populated using Unified user Profiles and Property sets.
* Extensive use of Netui tags of the Weblogic portal framework for the data popup. Written various front-end components using Weblogic netui tags.
* Created visitor entitlement for Desktop and Portlets and propagated from development environment to test, then staging environment.
* Web application flow using JavaPageFlows and JSP's using netui tags.
* Developed UUP to get the user information from Active Directory server.
* Followed on JSR 168 portal standards.
* Responsible for handling the IPC with event handling and backing files.
* Developed Portlets like JSP/HTML Portlets, Java Portlet, and Page flow Portlets, Struts Portlets and remote Portlets.
* Developed DAO, Hibernate components and prepared SQL queries& stored procedures.
* Customized WLP Skins/Skeletons/Shells/Themes for Portals to have consistent rich user experience.
* Used Propagation scripts and Propagation tool and Import Export XIP tool to Propagate Portal resources from one environment to other.
* WebLogic Workshop 10.2 used as IDE tool for Web portal application development and debugging and Weblogic10.2 Server.
* Creating Roles & Desktops and assign the roles to portlets based on Users/Groups using weblogic portal admin.
* Used/worked and Created JPF controllers, controls-JDBC, Custom, Data Binding, Data Grids, Nested Page flows, Shared Page flows, JPF Validations and Netui tags in JSPs, Inter portlet communication (IPC) using Backing files
* Worked with Bea Support Engineers for the Cases opened, and getting patches for the product bugs.
* Deployed the application as the shared library.
* Involved in Unit/Integration testing before code move into Production.
* Created and Modified Ant build files for creating war file, executing SQL scripts, executing JUnit test cases.
* Delivered Tar files for deploying in Unix Boxes.
* Involved in integration of the VoipInventory portlet into QcPortal with other portal teams.
Environment:J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, XML, HTML, XHTM, JavaScript, Ajax, Dojo, JPF, NetUI, Jakarta Struts1.2, JSF1.2, Hibernate3.0, Ejb3.0, Java security, Java WebServices ( JAX-RPC), JAXP, JNDI/LDAP, SOAP, XML, WebServices, Weblogic Portal Server10.2, WeblogicWorkshop10.2 (IDE), Oracle 11g, WindowsXP.



Java-WeblogicPortal Developer

Capital-One



October 2007 to July 2008

Common-Place Intranet Portal is a complete interaction and campaign management banking solution developed for CapitalOne bank that allows you to create, test, optimize, deploy, and analyze multi-wave, multi-channel personalized communications. With Common-Place Campaign, a core component of Capital One Enterprise Marketing Management software suite, organizations are able to deliver personalized, relevant marketing messages across all touch points and in real-time, resulting in improved customer relationships.
This provides a single interface for developing, optimizing, running, and evaluating all end customer interaction strategies. Scheduled campaigns, event-driven programs, and real time dialogs are integrated easily to drive effective targeted interaction strategies for each customer.

Also upgraded the portal from version 8.1 to 10.2. The upgrade was performed using the upgrade tool. Ant Scripts and Domain scripts were written in ant and WLST respectively.
Responsibilities:
* Involved in Coding and Designing application.
* Implemented Campaign Management using Bea Repository.
* Involved in Designing different types of portlets including JPF, Java, Struts.
* Developed portlets using Java Page Flow (JPF) and Java Controls in BEA portal framework.
* Written and Integrated Spring Jdbc DAO components and Spring IOC implementation.
* Implemented WebLogic Portal's Interaction Management features to control and enhance portal visitor interactions.
* Created placeholders that display the content, set up properties (such as user profile or session properties) that are used to define the conditions under which users will be targeted with campaign content.
* Utilized Weblogic Workshop IDE for development.
* Followed on JSR 168 portal standards.
* Used Bulk Loader scripts to upload the content to Bea Repository.
* Created a new content workflow document and modified existing document.
* Implemented Inter Portlet Communication (IPC) with the help of Backing Files.
* Mainly Responsible in setting up IPC calls between consumers and producers in Remote Portlets.
* Implemented propagation in 8.1 and PORTAL 10.x (using ant scripts)
* Created WLST scripts for automating Domain Scripts creation.
* Developed UUP to get the user information from Active Directory server.
* Developed Ant scripts to build the application for all the environments.
* Developed front-end user interfaces and connected to business logic using Servlets/JSP and Swing Applications.
* Developed several back-end applications programmatically, connection pooling and connected to stored procedures in Oracle.
* Extensively written JUnit Test Cases and performed unit testing.
* Created and Modified Ant build files for creating war file, executing SQL scripts, executing JUnit test cases.
* Assisting in the coding and testing of the Shared Security Common Service which is intended to be a building block for the rapid development of applications. By providing a configurable, stable, standardized set of security-related services, designers and developers will not have to worry about the implementation of a security system and will just need to invoke the web service.
* Written PL/SQL code using TOAD for Oracle 9I database.
* Application is developed using Agile and TDD SDLC methodology.
Environment: J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, EJB2.0, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, Dojo, JPF, Spring2.0, JSF1.2, Hibernate3.0, WebServices, JavaSecurity, JavaWebServices (JAX-RPC), JAXP, JNDI/LDAP, SOAP, XML Weblogic Portal Server10.2, Weblogic Workshop10.2 (IDE), Oracle 9I, WindowsXP.
```

#### ↳ Re: CoBOL Programmers Aren't Smart Enuf or Fast Enuf

- **From:** "docdwarf" <ua-author-6588713@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 2014-08-14T09:38:02+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-d1fe41e594-p2@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<8686c070-1ac4-4de0-887c-08378cee318d@googlegroups.com>`
- **References:** `<8686c070-1ac4-4de0-887c-08378cee318d@googlegroups.com>`

```
In article <8686c070-1ac4-4de0-887c-083··d@goo··s.com>,
Ken wrote:
› What to make of the following?

What I made of it was that someone kept themselves busy, travelling where
there was work to be found and updating their resume by using the
job-posting's wish-list and turning future-tense verbs into past.

I also concluded - perhaps wrongly - that I wouldn't want him on my team
but I'd love to see him on 'the opposing side'.

[snip]

› Baltimore-MD
›
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
› July 2011 to February 2012

I recall learning that Mr Rayhawk was with Lockheed for Social Security
near that site at that time... perhaps they met? Perhaps not... it is a
huge complex of buildings that have grown, higglety-pigglety, over three
decades.

DD
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: CoBOL Programmers Aren't Smart Enuf or Fast Enuf

- **From:** "klshafer" <ua-author-14501353@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 2014-08-14T14:41:03+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-d1fe41e594-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<gap-d1fe41e594-p2@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **References:** `<8686c070-1ac4-4de0-887c-08378cee318d@googlegroups.com> <gap-d1fe41e594-p2@usenetarchives.gap>`

```
On Thursday, August 14, 2014 9:38:53 AM UTC-4, doc··.@pa··x.com wrote:
› In article <8686c070-1ac4-4de0-887c-083··d@goo··s.com>,
› 
…[11 more quoted lines elided]…
› 

Hmmm... you are ever the astute one, DD, as I hardly noticed that the many engagements DO seem to be all in geographicaly dispersed locations. Perhaps a combination of "chasing the rainbow" of ever increasing rates, coupled with a sort of "time to get out of Dodge" type of evasion. It is not often that I have worn out my welcome in a city within six months, but then again, I never was much for high speed on the "fast track", preferring rather to, uh, cruise instead.

Ken
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: CoBOL Programmers Aren't Smart Enuf or Fast Enuf

- **From:** "docdwarf" <ua-author-6588713@usenetarchives.gap>
- **Date:** 2014-08-15T13:48:04+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<gap-d1fe41e594-p4@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **In-Reply-To:** `<gap-d1fe41e594-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`
- **References:** `<8686c070-1ac4-4de0-887c-08378cee318d@googlegroups.com> <gap-d1fe41e594-p2@usenetarchives.gap> <gap-d1fe41e594-p3@usenetarchives.gap>`

```
In article <72598b2a-1a05-4a3b-9b4c-9b5··8@goo··s.com>,
Ken wrote:
› On Thursday, August 14, 2014 9:38:53 AM UTC-4, doc··.@pa··x.com wrote:
›› In article <8686c070-1ac4-4de0-887c-083··d@goo··s.com>,
…[16 more quoted lines elided]…
› "fast track", preferring rather to, uh, cruise instead.

For those of such a bent - or sufficiently to learn how to bend - there is an adherance to the adage
"Better to be working *anyplace* than not working at all". On the other hand if word gets around in, say,
Bedford Falls that (x) is all hat and no cattle then (x) may find work more quickly when moving to
Pottersville.

This reminds me of... A Story! Years ago I was working on Wall St. and a fellow consultant - Al Herman,
may he sleep with the angels! - and I were riding the elevator to the ground floor to stare at something
more than 18 inches from our faces and suck down a couple of cigarettes. The cab stops at an intermediate
floor and in strides the head of our project... we exchange greetings, the door closes, a silence falls
and the the Biggest Guy says, with a heavy German accent, 'Och... you guys arrre zoch terrrible
prrrogrrrammerrrs, vhot vhould you do if you vair not vorrrking herrre?'

We had no idea of German customs and did not know that this was a sign of affection, that we were supposed
to confess our worthlessness in order to give Herr Grossmann the opportunity to say 'Vell, ve vill haff
pity on you undt keep you arrroundt chust a little longkerrr'... so Mr Herman shrugs and says 'We'd just
move up to midtown and get another job.'

In Germany or India or England folks are closer together and managers meet and gossip constantly, the idea
that one could escape a bad reference merely by getting on a subway and travelling a few stops was
unthinkable to them... second-nature to us. Perhaps things have changed.

DD
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
