[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)

# small question

_73 messages · 20 participants · 2000-09 → 2000-10_

---

### small question

- **From:** deek40@aol.com (Deek40)
- **Date:** 2000-09-30T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com>`

```
Is there any place I could find some COBOL open source code snippets or full
programs, I wanna start looking at different programs and try to figureo ut
what each line does within the program.  Thanks for your time.
Deek
```

#### ↳ Re: small question

- **From:** thaneH@softwaresimple.com (Thane Hubbell)
- **Date:** 2000-09-30T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39d5fd91.94365209@207.126.101.100>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com>`

```
You'll find source code examples on the All Things COBOL webring
sites:

http://www.geocities.com/redskythane/ring.htm

On 30 Sep 2000 13:46:44 GMT, deek40@aol.com (Deek40) wrote:

>Is there any place I could find some COBOL open source code snippets or full
>programs, I wanna start looking at different programs and try to figureo ut
>what each line does within the program.  Thanks for your time.
>Deek

---
Try a better search engine:  http://www.google.com
My personal web site: http://www.geocities.com/Eureka/2006/
```

#### ↳ Re: small question

- **From:** "Doug_xx2" <doug_xx2@yahoo.com>
- **Date:** 2000-09-30T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com>`

```
hello there
I actually have an example of a simple program you can take a look at. I
will paste it below. if you would like to look at the data file that it uses
or you really have any questions let me know. oh and by the way I ask that
if you are gonna use this to produce something you just give me a credit and
inform me of your intentions. I can be contacted @: doug_xx2@yahoo.com or
doug_xx2@stny.rr.com please contact me first so I can give you my full name
to use when you credit me for my work. but I doubt you will want to use it
for anything special as it is very rudamentary code. I also have examples of
report writers and a sort program and some menu driven stuff. it was writen
for vax cobol so if you are going to use it with something else you may have
to make some compiler specific changes. please find the source pasted below.
and note the alignment was screwed up durring the cut and paste operation.


IDENTIFICATION DIVISION.


PROGRAM-ID. CoBoL-DATA-VALIDATION.
AUTHOR. Douglas (ask for a last name and I will give you mine if you give me
yours).
DATE-WRITTEN. 02/2000.
****************************************************************
* VALIDATION OF RECORDS                                        *
****************************************************************


ENVIRONMENT DIVISION.


CONFIGURATION SECTION.
SOURCE-COMPUTER.     VAX.
OBJECT-COMPUTER.     VAX.

SPECIAL-NAMES.  C01 IS TOP-OF-PAGE.


INPUT-OUTPUT SECTION.

FILE-CONTROL.


SELECT MASTER-FILE-IN ASSIGN TO "MASTERFILE.DAT".
SELECT ERROR-LIST-RPT ASSIGN TO "ERROR_RPT.RPT".
SELECT CONFIRMED-FILES-OUT ASSIGN TO "VALIDATED_MASTER.DAT".


DATA DIVISION.

FILE SECTION.


FD MASTER-FILE-IN
   LABEL RECORDS ARE STANDARD
   RECORD CONTAINS 56 CHARACTERS.
01 RECORD_IN.
   05 DEPARTMENT_NUMBER_IN              PIC 9(2).
   05 SALES_NUMBER_IN                   PIC 9(3).
   05 NAME_IN                           PIC X(20).
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(7)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 CURRENT_SALES_IN                  PIC 9(7).
   05 COMMISION_RATE_IN                 PIC 9(2).
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(8)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 CURRENT_SALES_RETURN_IN           PIC 9(6).
   05 TYPE_CODE_IN                      PIC 9.


FD ERROR-LIST-RPT
   LABEL RECORDS OMITTED
   RECORD CONTAINS 80 CHARACTERS.
01 ERROR-REC-OUT                        PIC X(80).


FD CONFIRMED-FILES-OUT
   LABEL RECORDS OMITTED
   RECORD CONTAINS 56 CHARACTERS.
01 VALID-REC-OUT                        PIC X(56).


WORKING-STORAGE SECTION.


01 EOF-SW                               PIC 9            VALUE 0.


01 PAGE-CT                              PIC 999          VALUE 1.


01 LINE-CT                              PIC 99           VALUE 77.


01 NUM-RECS-IN                          PIC 9(3)         VALUE 0.


01 TIME-FOR-NEW-PAGE                    PIC 9            VALUE 1.


01 NUM-OF-GOOD-REC                      PIC 999          VALUE 0.


01 ERR-RPT-MSG1                         PIC X(57)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-RPT-MSG2                         PIC X(39)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-RPT-MSG3                         PIC X(39)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-RPT-MSG4                         PIC X(39)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-RPT-MSG5                         PIC X(39)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-RPT-MSG6                         PIC X(39)        VALUE SPACES.


01 TOT-ERRORS                           PIC 9(4)         VALUE ZEROS.


01 ERRORS-IN-REC                        PIC 99           VALUE ZEROS.


01 RECS-IN-ERR                          PIC 9(3)         VALUE ZEROS.


01 BLANK-RECS                           PIC 9(3)         VALUE ZEROS.


01 DATE-WS.
   05 DATE-YY                           PIC 9(2).
   05 DATE-MM                           PIC 9(2).
   05 DATE-DD                           PIC 9(2).


01 VALID-DETAIL-LN.
   05 VALID-REC-DET-LN                  PIC X(56).
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(24)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-HEAD-DET-LN.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(26)        VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-HEADING                       PIC X(28)        VALUE "DATA
VALIDATION ERROR REPORT".
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(26)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-HEAD-DATE-LN.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(10)        VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(4)         VALUE "PAGE".
   05 PAGE-CT-OUT                       PIC ZZ9          VALUE ZEROS.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(40)        VALUE SPACES.
   05 DATE-MM-OUT                       PIC 99/.
   05 DATE-DD-OUT                       PIC 99/.
   05 DATE-YY-OUT                       PIC 99.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(15)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-REC-DET-LN.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERROR-REC-DET           PIC X(56)        VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(19)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-MRK-DET-LN.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-DEPT-MRK                      PIC X(2)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-EMP-MRK                       PIC X(3)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-NAME-MRK                      PIC X(20)        VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(7)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-CURR-SAL-MRK                  PIC X(7)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-COMM-RT-MRK                   PIC X(2)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(8)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-CUR-SAL-RET-MRK               PIC X(6)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-TYP-CD-MRK                    PIC X            VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(19)        VALUE SPACES.


01 ERR-MESS-DET-LN.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 ERR-MESS-OUT                      PIC X(57).
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(36)        VALUE SPACES.


01 TOT-DET-LN1.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(23)        VALUE "Total
records processed".
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(2)         VALUE ": ".
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 TOT-RECS-OUT                      PIC ZZ9          VALUE ZEROS.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(49)        VALUE SPACES.


01 TOT-DET-LN2.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(28)        VALUE "Total good
records processed".
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(2)         VALUE ": ".
   05 TOT-GOOD-REC                      PIC ZZ9          VALUE ZEROS.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(72)        VALUE SPACES.


01 TOT-DET-LN3.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(25)        VALUE "Total
records with errors".
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(2)         VALUE ": ".
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(3)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 TOT-ERROR-REC                     PIC ZZ9          VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(72)        VALUE SPACES.


01 TOT-DET-LN4.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(22)        VALUE "Total number
of errors".
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(2)         VALUE ": ".
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(5)         VALUE SPACES.
   05 TOT-ERRORS-OUT                    PIC ZZZ9         VALUE ZEROS.
   05 FILLER                            PIC X(71)        VALUE SPACES.


PROCEDURE DIVISION.


****************************************************************
*000-MAIN-MODULE                                               *
*THIT IS THE MODULE THAT INITIATES THE ENTIRE PROGRAM. THIS    *
*MODULE STARTS OUT BY OPENING THE INPUT AND OUTPUT FILES.      *
*AFTER OPENING THE INPUT AND OUTPUT FILES THE MODULE GOES ON TO*
*GET THE PRESENT SYSTEM DATE FROM THE SYSTEM AND STORES IT IN  *
*THE DATE-WS FIELD. THE MODULE GOES ON TO MOVE THE DATE-WS     *
*COMPONETS TO THE ERR-HEAD-DATE-LN OUTPUT FIELD (THIS IS IN    *
*PREPARATION OF WRITING THE HEADING IN THE ERROR_RPT.RPT FILE).*
*THIS MODULE GOES ON TO PERFORM THE 150-READ-RTN (TO READ THE  *
*FIRST RECORD IN). AFTER PERFORMING THE 150-READ-RTN THIS      *
*MODULE GOES ON TO PERFORM THE 200-PROCESS UNTIL THE EOF-SW IS *
*TURNED ON. AFTER PERFORMING THE 200-PROCESS MODULE THIS       *
*MODULE GOES ON TO CLOSE THE INPUT AND OUTPUT FILES AND ENDS   *
*THE RUN.                                                      *
****************************************************************

000-MAIN-MODULE.
        OPEN INPUT MASTER-FILE-IN
             OUTPUT ERROR-LIST-RPT
             OUTPUT CONFIRMED-FILES-OUT.
        ACCEPT DATE-WS FROM DATE.
        MOVE DATE-YY TO DATE-YY-OUT.
        MOVE DATE-MM TO DATE-MM-OUT.
        MOVE DATE-DD TO DATE-DD-OUT.
        PERFORM 150-READ-RTN.
        PERFORM 200-PROCESS
                UNTIL EOF-SW=1.
        CLOSE MASTER-FILE-IN
              ERROR-LIST-RPT
              CONFIRMED-FILES-OUT.
        STOP RUN.


****************************************************************
*150-READ-RTN                                                  *
*THIS ROUTINE FIRST READS THE INPUT FILE AND IF IT FINDS ITSELF*
*AT THE END OF FILE IT PERFORMS 400-TOTALS-RTN BEFORE MOVING 1 *
*TO THE EOF-SW (END OF FILE SWITCH). IF IT IS NOT THE END OF   *
*THE INPUT FILE THIS ROUTINE ADDS 1 TO NUM-RECS-IN (USED TO    *
*TOTAL THE NUMBER OF RECORDS READ IN FROM THE INPUT FILE).     *
****************************************************************


150-READ-RTN.
        READ MASTER-FILE-IN
  AT END perform 400-TOTALS-RTN
                       MOVE 1 TO EOF-SW.
        ADD 1 TO NUM-RECS-IN.

****************************************************************
*200-PROCESS                                                   *
*CHECKS THE LINE COUNT TO SEE IF IT NEEDS TO TURN ON THE       *
*TIME-FOR-NEW-PAGE SWITCH. IT THEN CHECKS THE ERRORS-IN-REC    *
*COUNTER TO SEE IF THERE ARE ERRORS AND THEN EITHER PERFORMS   *
*THE 275-VALID-REC-OUT-RTN, OR MOVES ON TO CHECK IF THE TIME   *
*FOR NEW PAGE SWITCH IS TURNED ON. IF THE TIME FOR NEW PAGE    *
*SWITCH IS NOT TURNED ON IT PERFORMS THE 350-ERROR-RPT-OUT-RTN *
*BUT IF IT IS ON IT PERFORMS THE 300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN BEFORE *
*PERFORMING THE 300-ERROR-RPT-OUT-RTN. THE 200-PROCESS THEN    *
*PERFORMS THE 150-READ-RTN.                                    *
****************************************************************


200-PROCESS.
        IF LINE-CT IS > 75
                MOVE 1 TO TIME-FOR-NEW-PAGE.
        PERFORM 250-VALIDATION-RTN.
        IF ERRORS-IN-REC = 0
                PERFORM 275-VALID-REC-OUT-RTN
        ELSE IF TIME-FOR-NEW-PAGE = 1
                PERFORM 300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN
                PERFORM 350-ERROR-RPT-OUT-RTN
             ELSE PERFORM 350-ERROR-RPT-OUT-RTN.
        PERFORM 150-READ-RTN.


****************************************************************
*250-VALIDATION-RTN                                            *
*VALIDATES THE FIELDS TO BE CHECKED AND MOVES THE APROPRIATE   *
*ERROR MESSAGES AND FIELD MARKERS FOR EACH RECORD THAT HAS     *
*ERRORS.                                                       *
****************************************************************


250-VALIDATION-RTN.
        IF Type_Code_IN IS NOT = 1
                MOVE "Type code does not indicate load record (Not type code
1)" TO ERR-RPT-MSG1
                ADD 1 TO ERRORS-IN-REC
                MOVE "*" TO ERR-TYP-CD-MRK.
        IF DEPARTMENT_NUMBER_IN IS NOT NUMERIC
                MOVE "Dept. # is not numeric                 " TO
ERR-RPT-MSG2
                ADD 1 TO ERRORS-IN-REC
                MOVE "**" TO ERR-DEPT-MRK.
        IF SALES_NUMBER_IN IS NOT NUMERIC
                MOVE "Sales # is not numeric                 " TO
ERR-RPT-MSG3
                ADD 1 TO ERRORS-IN-REC
                MOVE "***" TO ERR-EMP-MRK.
        INSPECT CURRENT_SALES_IN REPLACING ALL SPACES BY ZEROS.
        IF CURRENT_SALES_IN IS NOT NUMERIC
                MOVE "Current sales is not numeric           " TO
ERR-RPT-MSG4
                ADD 1 TO ERRORS-IN-REC
                MOVE "*******" TO ERR-CURR-SAL-MRK.
        INSPECT Commision_Rate_In REPLACING ALL SPACES BY ZEROS.
        IF Commision_Rate_In IS NOT NUMERIC
                MOVE "Commision rate is not numeric          " TO
ERR-RPT-MSG5
                ADD 1 TO ERRORS-IN-REC
                MOVE "**" TO ERR-COMM-RT-MRK.
        INSPECT Current_Sales_Return_In REPLACING ALL SPACES BY ZEROS.
        IF Current_Sales_Return_In IS NOT NUMERIC
                MOVE "Current sales return is not numeric    " TO
ERR-RPT-MSG6
                ADD 1 TO ERRORS-IN-REC
                MOVE "******" TO ERR-CUR-SAL-RET-MRK.

****************************************************************
*275-VALID-REC-OUT-RTN                                         *
*THIS ROUTINE MOVES RECORD_IN (THE INPUT FILE) TO THE          *
*VALID-REC-DET-LN. IT THEN WRITES THE VALID RECORD TO THE      *
*VALIDATED_MASTER.DAT FILE USING THE FORMAT IT FINDS IN THE    *
*VALID-DETAIL-LN. AFTER WRITING THE VALID RECORD OUT THIS      *
*ROUTINE ADDS 1 TO THE NUM-OF-GOOD-REC COUNTER AND GOES ON TO  *
*INITIALIZE THE VALID-REC-DET-LN.                              *
****************************************************************


275-VALID-REC-OUT-RTN.
        MOVE RECORD_IN TO VALID-REC-DET-LN.
        WRITE VALID-REC-OUT FROM VALID-DETAIL-LN.
        ADD 1 TO NUM-OF-GOOD-REC.
        INITIALIZE VALID-REC-DET-LN.


****************************************************************
*300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN                                        *
*THE 300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN STARTS OUT BY MOVING THE VALUE OF  *
*THE PAGE-CT COUNTER TO THE PAGE-CT-OUT FIELD IN THE           *
*ERR-HEAD-DATE-LN. AFTER MOVING THE COUNTER THIS ROUTINE WRITES*
*TO THE ERROR_RPT.RPT FILE FROM THE ERR-HEAD-DET-LN AFTER A    *
*PAGE FEED. AFTER THE PAGE FEED THE ROUTINE WRITES TO THE      *
*ERROR_RPT.RPT FILE FROM THE ERR-HEAD-DATE-LN AFTER FOUR BLANK *
*LINES.THE ROUTINE THEN GOES ON TO MOVE 6 TO THE LINE-CT       *
*COUNTER, ADD 1 TO PAGE-CT (WHICH IS ONLY NEEDED AT THE END OF *
*THIS ROUTINE BECAUSE THE INITIAL VALUE IS 1), AND TURNS OFF   *
*THE TIME-FOR-NEW-PAGE SWITCH.                                 *
****************************************************************


300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN.
        MOVE PAGE-CT TO PAGE-CT-OUT.
        WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-HEAD-DET-LN AFTER TOP-OF-PAGE.
        WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-HEAD-DATE-LN AFTER 4.
        MOVE 06 TO LINE-CT.
        ADD 1 TO PAGE-CT.
        MOVE 0 TO TIME-FOR-NEW-PAGE.



****************************************************************
*350-ERROR-RPT-OUT-RTN                                         *
*THIS ROUTINE STARTS OUT BY CHECKING THE LINE COUNT TO SEE IF  *
*THERE IS ENOUGH ROOM TO WRITE THE RECORD IN ERROR AND ALL THE *
*ERROR MESSAGE BEFORE THE END OF THE PAGE. IF THERE IS NOT     *
*ENOUGH ROOM THE ROUTINE PERFORMS THE 300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN.  *
*AFTER CHECKING FOR ROOM AND POSSIBLY RUNNING THE HEADING      *
*ROUTINE THIS ROUTINE MOVES RECORD_IN TO THE ERROR-REC-DET     *
*FIELD. AFTER MOVING THE RECORD THIS ROUTINE WRITES THE        *
*ERROR_RPT.RPT FILE FROM ERR-REC-DET-LN AFTER 3 BLANK LINES.   *
*AFTER WRITING THE ERROR REPORT THE ROUTINE WRITES THE         *
*ERROR.RPT FROM THE ERR-MRK-DET-LN.(THIS DETAIL LINE IS WHERE  *
*THE FIELD MARKERS FOR THE FIELDS IN ERROR ARE WRITEN INTO THE *
*ERROR REPORT. AFTER WRITING THE RECORD IN ERROR OUT TO THE    *
*REPORT ALONG WITH IT'S MARKERS THE ROUTINE GOES ON TO CHECK   *
*THE SIX ERROR MESSAGE HOLDING FIELDS TO SEE IF THEY ARE EQUAL *
*TO SPACES OR NOT. IF THE FIELDS ARE SPACES THEY DO NOT GET    *
*MOVED OR WRITEN TO THE ERROR REPORT. IF THEY ARE NOT          *
*SPACES THEY GET MOVED AND WRITEN TO THE ERROR REPORT AND 1    *
*GETS ADDED TO THE LINE-CT COUNTER FOR EACH MESSAGE WRITTEN TO *
*THE ERROR REPORT. AFTER THE ROUTINE IS DONE CHECKING ALL THE  *
*ERROR MESSAGE HOLDERS IT ADDS ERRORS-IN-REC TO TOT-ERRORS     *
*(IN ORDER TO KEEP TRACK OF THE TOTAL NUMBER OF ERRORS FOUND), *
*MOVES 0 TO ERRORS IN REC (IN ORDER TO GET IT READY FOR THE    *
*NEXT RECORD), AND ADDS 1 TO RECS-IN-ERR (TO COUNT THE NUMBER  *
*OF ERROR RECORDS PROCESSED).                                  *
****************************************************************


350-ERROR-RPT-OUT-RTN.
        IF LINE-CT IS > 64
                PERFORM 300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN.
        MOVE RECORD_IN TO ERROR-REC-DET.
        WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-REC-DET-LN AFTER 3.
        WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-MRK-DET-LN.
        ADD 5 TO LINE-CT.
        INITIALIZE ERR-MRK-DET-LN.
        INITIALIZE ERROR-REC-DET.
        IF ERR-RPT-MSG1 IS NOT = SPACES
                MOVE ERR-RPT-MSG1 TO ERR-MESS-OUT
                WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-MESS-DET-LN
                INITIALIZE ERR-RPT-MSG1
  ADD 1 TO LINE-CT.
        IF ERR-RPT-MSG2 IS NOT = SPACES
                MOVE ERR-RPT-MSG2 TO ERR-MESS-OUT
                WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-MESS-DET-LN
                INITIALIZE ERR-RPT-MSG2
  ADD 1 TO LINE-CT.
        IF ERR-RPT-MSG3 IS NOT = SPACES
                MOVE ERR-RPT-MSG3 TO ERR-MESS-OUT
                WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-MESS-DET-LN
                INITIALIZE ERR-RPT-MSG3
  ADD 1 TO LINE-CT.
        IF ERR-RPT-MSG4 IS NOT = SPACES
                MOVE ERR-RPT-MSG4 TO ERR-MESS-OUT
                WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-MESS-DET-LN
                INITIALIZE ERR-RPT-MSG4
  ADD 1 TO LINE-CT.
        IF ERR-RPT-MSG5 IS NOT = SPACES
                MOVE ERR-RPT-MSG5 TO ERR-MESS-OUT
                WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-MESS-DET-LN
                INITIALIZE ERR-RPT-MSG5
  ADD 1 TO LINE-CT.
        IF ERR-RPT-MSG6 IS NOT = SPACES
                MOVE ERR-RPT-MSG6 TO ERR-MESS-OUT
                WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM ERR-MESS-DET-LN
                INITIALIZE ERR-RPT-MSG6
  ADD 1 TO LINE-CT.
        INITIALIZE ERR-REC-DET-LN.
        ADD ERRORS-IN-REC TO TOT-ERRORS.
        MOVE 0 TO ERRORS-IN-REC.
        ADD 1 TO RECS-IN-ERR.


****************************************************************
*400-TOTALS-RTN
*
*THE 400-TOTALS-ROUTINE STARTS OUT BY CHECKING THE LINE-CT TO  *
*SEE IF THERE IS ROOM FOR A NEW PAGE. IF IT IS TIME FOR A NEW  *
*PAGE IT PERFORMS THE 300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN. IF THERE IS ROOM *
*FOR ALL OF THE TOTALS TO PRINT ON THE PRESENT PAGE IT MOVES   *
*NUM-OF-GOOD-REC (NUMBER OF GOOD RECORDS) TO TOT-GOOD-REC.     *
*THEN IT MOVES TOT-ERRORS (THE TOTAL NUMBER OF ERRORS FOUND)   *
*TO TOT-ERRORS-OUT, MOVES RECS-IN-ERR (NUMBER OF RECORDS WITH  *
*ERRORS) TO TOT-ERROR-REC, AND NUM-RECS-IN (NUMBER OF RECORDS  *
*READ FROM THE DATA FILE) TO TOT-RECS-OUT. AFTER PERFORMING    *
*ALL OF IT'S MOVES IT WRITES THE ERROR REPORT FROM             *
*TOT-DET-LN1,2,3,AND 4.                                        *
****************************************************************


400-TOTALS-RTN.
        IF LINE-CT IS > 63
                PERFORM 300-ERROR-RPT-HDNG-RTN.
        MOVE NUM-OF-GOOD-REC TO TOT-GOOD-REC.
        MOVE TOT-ERRORS TO TOT-ERRORS-OUT.
        MOVE RECS-IN-ERR TO TOT-ERROR-REC.
        MOVE NUM-RECS-IN TO TOT-RECS-OUT.
        WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM TOT-DET-LN1 AFTER 3.
        WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM TOT-DET-LN2.
        WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM TOT-DET-LN4.
        WRITE ERROR-REC-OUT FROM TOT-DET-LN3.
```

##### ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

- **From:** "Jeff Baynard" <union27@macconnect.com>
- **Date:** 2000-09-30T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com>`

```
I think this program is pretty good, but I see one problem...

I am against such wordy comments.  The problem is, any maintenance
programmers, even good ones, come along and assume, with such thorough
comments, that the comments are correct.  Unfortunately, even after only a
few programmers have touched the program, this is often not true.  Comments
go out of 'style' faster than style itself.  Inaccurate comments, as is
usually the case, are often dangerous.

COBOL, by it's very nature, is self-documenting.  This is probably one of
the biggest reasons why it's still around as a viable method of processing
data.  Because of it's durability, an average program has probably been
touched a few times, at least, and an inconsistency in programming style can
have an overall impact on the 'content' or logic of the program itself.
Comments confound, or multiply, this problem.

If any language doesn't need comments, COBOL is it.  Comments are certainly
worthwhile, and appreciated, in tricky code.  If the comment helps us
understand how this routine fits into the bigger picture of the system, or
if the code is particularly 'non-intuitive' to an average programmer, then
comments are essential.  Comments at the beginning of the program are always
good, as well as a blurb at the beginning of each paragraph, even if this is
only the (well chosen hopefully) paragraph name repeated, centered, with a
box or some asterisks surrounding it.

But these comments, in the program presented are un-neccesarily (sp?) wordy.
If I didn't speak English too well, then these comments would certainly make
the program more 'arbitary' or less understandable or more confusing.

One of the most impressive programmers I know of in our shop spent many
months in PowerBuilder, Informix, and AIX.  He is Polish, and no longer
works with us.  The code he wrote is very impressive, but let me tell you,
it is not easy reading Polish code.

I like to stress the importance of Shop Standards.  In a tightly integrated
shop, these comments would be considered largely a waste of typing time,
although nobody would really care that much as long as the system work
correctly.  If everyone conforms to a certain basic set of rules, then many
things become uniformed, or standardized, and this makes later modification
easier because there is less confusion as to what exactly the program is
trying to do.  Many things are 'given' at that point.  That is the beauty of
Shop Standards.

Any good programmer realizes that the end product is the main goal.  People
who use computers, guess what, they don't give a fuck how the shit works.
They could care less that we ran out of space, or blew the schedule, or that
there's a bug in the system, they just want it to work.  We, as programmers,
need to continue to ascend to those levels to provide entire packages to the
consumers, something that the consumer, or user, can trust.

Jeff

----------
In article <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com>, "Doug_xx2"
<doug_xx2@yahoo.com> wrote:


> hello there
> I actually have an example of a simple program you can take a look at. I
…[492 more quoted lines elided]…
>
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-01T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com>`

```
In article <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com>,
  "Jeff Baynard" <union27@macconnect.com> wrote:
> I think this program is pretty good, but I see one problem...
>
> programmers, even good ones, come along and assume, with such thorough
> comments, that the comments are correct.

Hi:

I think the same is true of paragraph-names.  Just because the
paragraph is called DETERMINE-KUMQUAT-QUOTIENT doesn't necessarily mean
that that is what it does. It might have when the program was
originally written, but, over time, it might have been changed and
the change not documented, nor paragraph re-named.

Anyway, in my minimalist fashion, I don't use meaningful para-names.
Instead, I use short names which serve merely as a reference point
within the program. If you want to know what the code in a para does,
then one must read the code.

My paragraph-names look like this:

B.
   BLAH BLAH
B10.
   BLAH BLAH
   GO TO BX.
B20.
   BLAH BLAH
BX.
   EXIT.
C.
   and so on.

Short, meaningless names are easier to use. The code is less
cluttered than with big, long, 'meaningful' paragraph names.
They take less time to type.

A comment on comments - I have code which I wrote years ago
and I hope and pray I never have to figure it out.  It is not
so much what the program does, but more as to WHY it does what
it does in the way that it does it that requires comment.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth



Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-10-01T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com>, Foodman  <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:

[snippage]

>Anyway, in my minimalist fashion, I don't use meaningful para-names.
>Instead, I use short names which serve merely as a reference point
…[15 more quoted lines elided]…
>   and so on.

... and once again, Mr Dilworth, you have demonstrated that your work
never has to go through a Production Standards review and that you inhabit
an anomalous situation.

>
>Short, meaningless names are easier to use. The code is less
>cluttered than with big, long, 'meaningful' paragraph names.
>They take less time to type.

Are you familiar, Mr Dilworth, with the aphorism of 'Penny wise and pound
foolish'?

>
>A comment on comments - I have code which I wrote years ago
>and I hope and pray I never have to figure it out.

Bingo... Mr Dilworth, please remember that in order to be allowed to do
their jobs quite a few other programmers are expected to code in a fashion
which would allow the archetypical two-year programmer to be able to read,
understand and modify at 2:AM.

The rest of the 'Coding Universe' appears to obey different laws than the
ones which you claim apply in the confluence of circumstances which have
formed the 'Dilworth Anomaly'.

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-01T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net>`

```

>
> The rest of the 'Coding Universe' appears to obey different laws than
the
> ones which you claim apply in the confluence of circumstances which
have
> formed the 'Dilworth Anomaly'.
>
> DD
>

Hi:

Yes, that is why they are so screwed-up.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-10-01T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com>, Foodman  <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
>
>>
…[9 more quoted lines elided]…
>Yes, that is why they are so screwed-up.

Mr Dilworth, this 'screwed-uppedness' allows the rest of the 'Coding
Universe' to build, maintain and expand systems the size of which - both
in  number of modules involved and transactions/period throughput - makes 
what you are familiar with a negligible subsystem.  That aside... try to
remember what Einstein had to say about being able to identify which
system is in motion.

What works in a droplet might now work in an ocean, Mr Dilworth... it
might be best to stick with the driblets with which one is familiar.

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-01T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net>`

```

>
> Mr Dilworth, this 'screwed-uppedness' allows the rest of the 'Coding
> Universe' to build, maintain and expand systems the size of which -
both
> in  number of modules involved and transactions/period throughput -
makes
> what you are familiar with a negligible subsystem.

Hi:

Kindly explain why the standard of coding should vary
depending on the size of the application or transaction-
volume. Are you saying that you have one set of 'standards' for small
programs and another set for large?

Why should a paragraph-naming convention be dependant upon
application size?

BTW, how do you know what I am familiar with? All you know is
what I currently do.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth



Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** frlsfly@aol.com (FRLSFLY)
- **Date:** 2000-10-01T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20001001161630.04855.00000057@ng-fn1.aol.com>`
- **References:** `<8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
>Are you saying that you have one set of 'standards' for small
>programs and another set for large?
>
>Why should a paragraph-naming convention be dependant upon
>application size?

Um, PMFJI to such a nice exchange, but I DO think that there are different
standards for large systems of programs as opposed to small ones.

In large systems of programs, the extra time spent in observing careful
structure, verbose naming conventions, and things like paragraph numbers in
which control Levels are implicit (B1000 instead of 1000, eg), error messages
that clearly identify the area of code emitting them, and other careful
crafting, pay off in a matter of hours once you hit System Integration test.

In small systems of programs, or small single programs, this extra effort is
often 
unappreciated as it has a low immediate ROI. 

Now, in an IDEAL world, this would not be true, but when faced with real world
schedules and budgets, there are different standards applied.  I don't say I
like it, though.
Nathan Meyer
Berkeley, CA
"Big Endian" is what I like.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-01T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8r87qi$77v$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20001001161630.04855.00000057@ng-fn1.aol.com>`

```
In article <20001001161630.04855.00000057@ng-fn1.aol.com>,
  frlsfly@aol.com (FRLSFLY) wrote:
> >Are you saying that you have one set of 'standards' for small
> >programs and another set for large?
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> Um, PMFJI to such a nice exchange,

Hi:

What does PMFJI mean?

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** Arnold Trembley <arnold.trembley@worldnet.att.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T04:31:44+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D80F02.5F050231@worldnet.att.net>`
- **References:** `<8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20001001161630.04855.00000057@ng-fn1.aol.com> <8r87qi$77v$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
> In article <20001001161630.04855.00000057@ng-fn1.aol.com>,
…[15 more quoted lines elided]…
> Tony Dilworth

PMFJI = Pardon Me For Jumping In

It's less cryptic than your paragraph naming conventions <VBG>!

With kindest regards,
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** frlsfly@aol.com (FRLSFLY)
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T06:42:09+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<20001002024209.25860.00000207@ng-ca1.aol.com>`
- **References:** `<8r87qi$77v$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
PMFJI-  Pardon Me For Jumping In...
Nathan Meyer
Berkeley, CA
"Big Endian" is what I like.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D88BC6.320D943A@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
> Kindly explain why the standard of coding should vary
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> application size?

A large system will be maintained by multiple programmers of varying
abilities.  These programmers will NOT be intimately familiar with each
program and subroutine.  

Since maintenance is an expensive task (and downtime is even more
expensive), programs of all sizes should be designed to make maintenance
easy.  If you are the only person doing maintenance, and if you are very
familiar with your code, you may have techniques which work for you -
kind of like being able to read your own handwriting.  A project which
is too large for these assumptions will require that you consider the
other people who will be doing maintenance.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rchqm$i4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D88BC6.320D943A@brazee.net>`

```

>
> A large system will be maintained by multiple programmers of varying
> abilities.  These programmers will NOT be intimately familiar with
each
> program and subroutine.

Of course they won't, and the odds are that if the system is not new
it will have been developed using different standards, styles, methods,
not to mention umpteen different software thingies,etc. and it would be
unreasonable to expect anyone to be familiar with them all as well as
the entire application. I worked on big systems at one time, too.
>
> Since maintenance is an expensive task (and downtime is even more
> expensive), programs of all sizes should be designed to make
maintenance
> easy.


Couldn't agree more.


 If you are the only person doing maintenance, and if you are very
> familiar with your code, you may have techniques which work for you -
> kind of like being able to read your own handwriting.  A project which
> is too large for these assumptions will require that you consider the
> other people who will be doing maintenance.

I don't agree that size should affect your standards.

I just don't see why everybody hates my pithy paragraph-names
so much.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D9E2CA.C520BCE0@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D88BC6.320D943A@brazee.net> <8rchqm$i4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
> I just don't see why everybody hates my pithy paragraph-names
> so much.

I guess we're at heart, lazy.  We want to be able to look at a PERFORM
with a pretty good guess about what it will do.  We would rather get our
maintenance done quickly and easily and go on to other things.

We weren't born hating obfuscated code - we learned to hate it.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T07:58:48+01:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DAD528.E8581991@Azonic.co.nz>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D88BC6.320D943A@brazee.net> <8rchqm$i4n$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> I just don't see why everybody hates my pithy paragraph-names
> so much.

It is probably because they have been given programs like that to work
on where the original author didn't understand either.

There is a vast difference between the writing of programs for your own
needs (where you can later utilise your memory of what it does), and
writing for others' needs.

What _you_ see as 'easy', 'clear' and 'obvious', others may see as
obscure and disjointed.  Having to read every line to  find out what the
program does is time consuming and error prone.

Of course you don't 'see' this, there has been no mechanism to feed back
to you that you are travelling the wrong way.  Yes, your style is easy
to write and saves key-strokes, you p[robably don't bother with a design
stage either being experienced enough to have several designs in your
head to call on.

Your code won't survive you though.  It will be tossed away like a cheap
thriller rather than be savioured like a novell by the next generation
(or whoever your clients may try to get to look after it).
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:29:15+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com>, Foodman  <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
>
>>
…[10 more quoted lines elided]…
>programs and another set for large?

Mr Dilworth, I am saying that what you do for your small set of programs -
programs which only you touch - may not be appropriate for systems which
are not subject to the 'Dilworth Anomaly'.
 
>
>Why should a paragraph-naming convention be dependant upon
>application size?

I don't recall stating that it should; be so kind as to address what I've
written, not what you wished me to have written.

>
>BTW, how do you know what I am familiar with? All you know is
>what I currently do.

Have you forgotten, Mr Dilworth?  What you're currently doing, by your own
assertion, is what you've been doing for decades.

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net>`

```


> Mr Dilworth, I am saying that what you do for your small set of
programs - programs which only you touch - may not be appropriate for
systems which are not subject to the 'Dilworth Anomaly'.

Hi:

I think that they are appropriate regardless of the size of the
system, therefore, all systems are subject to the 'Dilworth Anomaly'.

How do you know how small my set of programs is?

> >BTW, how do you know what I am familiar with? All you know is
> >what I currently do.
>
> Have you forgotten, Mr Dilworth?  What you're currently doing, by
your own assertion, is what you've been doing for decades.
>
> DD

That's right, it worked then and it works now. The reason I do
things the way that I do is because it is fast, inexpensive,
efficient, produces dependable and maintainable code, is highly
portable, easy-to-use, self-explanatory, never fails, etc. etc.,
so why should I change?

Can you say the same about your efforts?

BTW, why don't you tell us about your standards, methods, procedures
etc. rather than just sneering at things which you don't like? Better
yet provide us with an example of your work so that we can judge
you better and possibly learn from your example.

For what it is worth, I continue and will continue to post to
this forum because I think that newcomers should have an alternate
point-of-view. See the thread 'Only for COBOL newbies'.

I am perfectly willing to present samples of my work in the
forum, are you?

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** cbass2112@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
  Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:

-- snip --

> The reason I do things the way that I do is because it is fast,
> inexpensive, efficient,

Okay, hold on . . .

How can you claim efficiency in light of:

http://www.deja.com/[ST_rn=ps]/getdoc.xp?AN=670790533&fmt=text

TD] As I mentioned elsewhere, my concern is speed of development - who
TD] cares about efficiency when PCs are so ridiculously fast.  I would
TD] rather save coding-time than execution-time which is invisible
TD] anyway.

> produces dependable and maintainable code,

With all due respect, you are in no position to judge your own code's
maintainability, since maintainability is based on the concept of
someone *other than* the original author doing the maintaining.

That is one of the points of a peer review.

> is highly portable, easy-to-use, self-explanatory, never fails, etc.
> etc., so why should I change?

Frankly, I'm skeptical. It isn't as if you were the first programmer to
give his own code and development methods a glowing review . . .

> Can you say the same about your efforts?

Anybody can *say* anything, and that's part of what I alluded to just
above.

-- snip --

> I am perfectly willing to present samples of my work in the
> forum, are you?

I would love to see your "maintainable" spaghetti code, Mr. Dilworth,
complete with meaningless paragraph names.

I've encountered such many times during my travels, and routinely cursed
the authors' names when it was *my* responsibility to get the hacked
kludge working before sun up.

I'll post an example of my coding as well.


Curtis


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 11)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```

> Okay, hold on . . .
>
> How can you claim efficiency in light of:
>
Hi:

There is efficiency of development and there is efficiency of
execution. I give little concern to efficiency of execution
because the computers are so fast.  I am, therefore, more
interested in efficiency of development. If a program may
be inefficient in execution, there are lots of ways to speed
it up.

>
> > produces dependable and maintainable code,
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> someone *other than* the original author doing the maintaining.

I don't agree at all.  A decent programmer should be able to
see whether his code is clear and should provide appropriate
comments at the time it is written, when necessary (Yes, I know that I
said elsewhere that I have code which I would be reluctant to approach.
But not much.)

> > is highly portable, easy-to-use, self-explanatory, never fails, etc.
> > etc., so why should I change?
>
> Frankly, I'm skeptical. It isn't as if you were the first programmer
to
> give his own code and development methods a glowing review . . .

I merely state facts and offer an alternate, minimalist approach. I
wonder why you all are so hostile and sarcastic?

All I know is that I have about 600 users all over the world and
I NEVER receive calls at 3 in the morning or any other time. The
ONLY time I receive calls are when the customer has had some sort
of hardware problem usually occasioned by a power failure. I have
customers who have been using my software for more then ten years
and they have never called once in that entire time.

Again, I state facts. People accuse me of bragging and other
horrible things. All I do is state facts.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D9E07B.3050863C@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
> There is efficiency of development and there is efficiency of
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> it up.

There are occasions where your style of programming will speed up
execution.  There aren't occasions where it will make it easier for
someone else to maintain your code.


> > With all due respect, you are in no position to judge your own code's
> > maintainability, since maintainability is based on the concept of
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> But not much.)

Pretty much true - but until you have maintained other people's code,
written in various style, you really cannot compare.

I can guess that OO CoBOL can be hard to debug in an enterprise
environment - but I would lose any argument with someone who had
experience with both types of CoBOL in enterprise environments.

> I merely state facts and offer an alternate, minimalist approach. I
> wonder why you all are so hostile and sarcastic?

The hostility comes from having maintained various styles of code -
after swearing at a programmer for failing to use structured programming
styles, it is easy to resent it when someone tells the world to do more
of the same.

There is a strong correlation which we find in the code we maintain
between the style of the code, how well it works, and how easy it is to
maintain.  Sure, there is some good unstructured stuff, and certainly
some bad structured code.  But everybody with experience maintaining
other people's code with these various styles sees this obvious
difference.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** cbass2112@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rd5rn$40j$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
  Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
>
> > Okay, hold on . . .
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> interested in efficiency of development.

And what are your justifications for claiming that developng spaghetti
code is "more efficient" than developing structured (or object oriented)
code? After all, you do not use the newer methods, so how can you be in
a position to judge?

Also, again, the actual coding of a program or system represents as
little as 5 percent of the overall life cycle of that program or system,
so why sweat over that 5% when it will have such an adverse effect on
maintenance (which can represent as much as 75 percent of the life
cycle)?

> If a program may be inefficient in execution, there are lots of ways
> to speed it up.

Yeah, like running it on a faster processor?  But seriously, how easy
can it be to optimize spaghetti as compared to structured code?

> > > produces dependable and maintainable code,
> >
…[9 more quoted lines elided]…
> approach. But not much.)

A "decent programmer" will not write spaghetti in the first place, for a
"decent programmer" will consider structured code, based on a solid
structured design, to be more clear than spaghetti code with interpersed
comments.  It's far easier to maintain a small paragraph of structured
code with comments in the header block than to maintain a ten-page block
of spaghetti with interpersed comments.

Trust me, I've been there.

> > > is highly portable, easy-to-use, self-explanatory, never fails,
> > > etc. etc., so why should I change?
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> wonder why you all are so hostile and sarcastic?

I have already explained why *I* am, but you edited it out:

http://x62.deja.com/[ST_rn=ps]/getdoc.xp?AN=676994870

TD] I am perfectly willing to present samples of my work in the
TD] forum, are you?

CB] I would love to see your "maintainable" spaghetti code, Mr.
CB] Dilworth, complete with meaningless paragraph names.

CB] I've encountered such many times during my travels, and routinely
CB] cursed the authors' names when it was *my* responsibility to get
CB] the hacked kludge working before sun up.

> All I know is that I have about 600 users all over the world and
> I NEVER receive calls at 3 in the morning or any other time. The
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> and they have never called once in that entire time.

Nobody is claiming that your code doesn't *work* Mr. Dilworth. What I
keep harping on is the issue of maintenance, and it's an issue that you
seem to ignore.

-- snip --


Curtis



Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 13)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rhrr7$tt9$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rd5rn$40j$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```

>
> Also, again, the actual coding of a program or system represents as
> little as 5 percent of the overall life cycle of that program
orsystem,
> so why sweat over that 5% when it will have such an adverse effect on
> maintenance (which can represent as much as 75 percent of the life
> cycle)?
>

Perhaps this is the crux of the problem. If the 5% were
greater, the 75% would be less.  Think about that for more
than a millisecond or two.

> Nobody is claiming that your code doesn't *work* Mr. Dilworth. What I
> keep harping on is the issue of maintenance, and it's an issue that
you
> seem to ignore.

Sorry for ignoring it, but I don't have a problem with maintenance.
Some of the software in my POS software systems was written by
some one else. Most of the code was originally written in 1986. I
am extremely responsive to customer requests and normally incorporate
sensible requests which may mean maintaining the other person's code
written in the eighties.  So, I am maintaining them all the time and
I also enjoy tinkering with them to make improvements in appearance
or whatever. Every program was written in strict accordance with a
comprehensive set of standards all designed with ease-of-maintenance
in mind.

There is a lot more to my minimalist methodology than you are aware
of. My standards cover far more than paragraph-names and extend to
every aspect of system development even to the extent of COBOL
code generators written my me in COBOL. (I also have a screen design
program for DOS written in Pascal replaced by the excellent SP2)
To judge me for my meaningless paragraph-names alone is to
judge me in the dark - they are part of the methodology.

Perhaps, if you could see the entire picture, your opinion might be
different, you might even learn a thing or two - ha ha! If nothing
else, perhaps I am entitled to the benefit of the doubt, from a
professional point-of-view, of course.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 14)_

- **From:** "Cliff Peterson" <cliff.peterson@spamcop.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<qb5D5.6711$Ly1.76538@news5.giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rd5rn$40j$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rhrr7$tt9$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```

On  5-Oct-2000, Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:

> > Also, again, the actual coding of a program or system represents as
> > little as 5 percent of the overall life cycle of that program
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> than a millisecond or two.

Reality check here - the original comment asserted that since more time is
spent in maintaining and enhancing the program than is spent developing it,
additional effort should be spent up front to reduce the back.  My
millisecond of thought leads me to believe that you just said the same
thing.

> There is a lot more to my minimalist methodology than you are aware
> of. My standards cover far more than paragraph-names and extend to
…[9 more quoted lines elided]…
> professional point-of-view, of course.

Personally, I'm impressed by anyone who has built a successful business. 
The fact that you have customers, keep them happy and make a living from
your own efforts scores you pretty high on my impress-o-meter.

We're all ears (well, eyes anyway).  Can you post your methodology?  As I've
said, I'm always ready to look at other's methods.  And I, for one, am here
to learn from a successful (if controversial) veteran.

Cliff
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 14)_

- **From:** cbass2112@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-06T00:12:25+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rj5d5$34c$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rd5rn$40j$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rhrr7$tt9$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8rhrr7$tt9$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
  Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
>
> >
…[9 more quoted lines elided]…
> than a millisecond or two.

Well, let's recall your statement to which I was responding:

TD] I am, therefore, more interested in efficiency of development.

Presumably, your objective is to "make development faster" so that you
can code up a module in, say 16 hours, whereas I, with my structured
methods, may take a whole 24-36 hours.  Is that not what you mean by
"efficiency of development?"

Now, your spaghetti-coded module only took 16 hours to develop, and mine
took perhaps twice as long, ergo, I'm "not efficient" based on this
particular criterion. However, consider that this module will be running
in production for, say ten years, and during that time, government
regulations will change, or the company will be bought out, or the
markets will change, or a dozen other things may happen that will
require changes to that module.

Six years from now, when some junior programmer is working on that code,
he will thank me for laying things out so even he, with his minimal
grasp of the business rules and shop standards, can easily grasp what
the module is doing, where it's doing it, and why. He can zero in on the
paragraph(s) that will be affected by whatever change he needs to
implement, and can easily verify that the rest of the paragraphs in that
module will not be affected.

If he has to modify your module, he will have to contend with GOTOs that
go who knows where, he will have to contend with paragraph names that
are meaningless, he will have to deal with spaghetti.  How much time
will he have to spend figuring out what your module does, where it does
it, and why?

So great, you managed to code your module in half the time mine took,
but at this point in time six years from now, who bloody well cares?
Which is more efficient to maintain?

*THAT* is what I meant when I said, "why sweat over that 5% when it will
have such an adverse effect on . . .  as much as 75 percent . . . ?"

Be honest, did you "think about that for more than a millisecond or
two?"  ;)

> > Nobody is claiming that your code doesn't *work* Mr. Dilworth. What
> > I keep harping on is the issue of maintenance, and it's an issue
> > that you seem to ignore.
>
> Sorry for ignoring it, but I don't have a problem with maintenance.

That you personally "don't have a problem" with it doesn't matter,
because *the industry as a whole* DOES have a problem with it, a major
problem.  Like I've said before, the odds of working in a "large" (i.e.,
more than one programmer) shop are much higher than working in a one-man
shop. Also, like I've said before, at some point in time, *your* code
will have to be maintained by someone other than you, or else be
scrapped.

> Some of the software in my POS software systems was written by
> some one else. Most of the code was originally written in 1986. I
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
> in mind.

"Ease of maintenance" by whom, exactly? By someone already familiar with
the business, its programs and systems, and who hasn't changed his
methods in decades? What about the junior programmer who doesn't know
jack about the business, and doesn't have decades of experience in
programming?

> There is a lot more to my minimalist methodology than you are aware
> of. My standards cover far more than paragraph-names and extend to
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> judge me in the dark - they are part of the methodology.

I can only judge by what I perceive. As I've stated elsewhere, you admit
to writing spaghetti and using meaningless paragraph names. Also, when
deriding the EVALUATE statement, you posted a code snippet that was
***NOT*** functionly equivalent to the EVALUATE example that was posted.

Like I said, I can only judge by what I perceive.

> Perhaps, if you could see the entire picture, your opinion might be
> different, you might even learn a thing or two - ha ha!

Anything is possible, but keep the context of this discussion in mind; I
have used your methods (spaghetti) and moved on to better ones, while
you have remained with "what worked thirty years ago." Who's in the
better position to make value judgements with regard to methodologies
and techniques, the one who has used the old and the new, or the one
who has only used the old?

> If nothing else, perhaps I am entitled to the benefit of the doubt,
> from a professional point-of-view, of course.

Perhaps, but again, I an only judge by what I can perceive. Feel free to
fill in any blanks any way you see fit.


Curtis


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 15)_

- **From:** "Michael Mattias" <michael.mattias@gte.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-06T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<f2jD5.26$Cb6.18494@paloalto-snr1.gtei.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rd5rn$40j$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rhrr7$tt9$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rj5d5$34c$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
I read a book (I think it it was "Gates" by Steven Manes, but I'm not sure)
in which Bill Gates was quoted saying that IBM did not 'get it', as a major
result of several months of Microsoft contract work had resulted in a forty
percent reduction in the number of lines of some IBM-written code, and IBM
was trying to renegotiate the price based on the low net klocs (thousands of
lines of code) the Microsoft team had produced.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 15)_

- **From:** "Jeff Baynard" <union27@macconnect.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-07T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rofg90lb6@enews4.newsguy.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rd5rn$40j$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rhrr7$tt9$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rj5d5$34c$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
I agree 100%.  It is much wiser to spend the time up front coding, 
documenting and testing, testing, testing thouroughly.  As I like to say,
test now, or fix later.  Once that system goes live, you won't want to have
to touch it.  The time you spend typing, punching in code, is irrelevant in
the big picture.

And what about the business; our consumers.  All they care about is it's
correct.  Correctness is the #1 goal, right?

They don't want to have programs that bring down the system.  If things are
written to Shop Standards, then the odds that a programmer can make changes
sucessfully is much higher.  Isn't this what it's all about really?  A
computer is just a machine ya know, and a programmer is kinda like an
engineer or a mechanic.

I still stand on the basis of Shop Standards as the key to maintainability.
I started this whole mess remember.  I'm not proud of it really; I didn't
think this discussion would have made it this far.  I said originally, that
Shop Standards would make such comments unnecessary.

This is like the Dilworth Anomaly, yes DD, since there are no Shop
Standards, then there doesn't need to be a structured mentality.  Imagine
Dilworth having to write code for a Big Shop, and have to go thru code
reviews and stuff.  hehe

Jeff

----------
In article <8rj5d5$34c$1@nnrp1.deja.com>, cbass2112@my-deja.com wrote:


> Now, your spaghetti-coded module only took 16 hours to develop, and mine
> took perhaps twice as long, ergo, I'm "not efficient" based on this
…[18 more quoted lines elided]…
> it, and why?
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 14)_

- **From:** Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2000-10-06T08:15:37+01:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DD7C19.8DACE1D3@Azonic.co.nz>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rala6$24h$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgjh$h98$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rd5rn$40j$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rhrr7$tt9$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
> > Also, again, the actual coding of a program or system represents as
> > little as 5 percent of the overall life cycle of that program
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> than a millisecond or two.

Yet it was you, Tony, that was advocating that writing meaningful
paragraph names was a 'waste of time' and short meaningless names saved
keystrokes even if it meant that the whole program code had to be read
to work out what each paragraph did.  So you were advocating techniques
to reduce initial coding at the expense of later work on the code (even
if you failed to notice that).

Also, maintenance is _not_ about fixing up programs to make them work as
designed, it is about making them do different things because the
business model has changed or because of new requirements.  The 75% over
the life time is irreducable (in general) because programs are initially
written to specifications at that time and are not written to
unformulated and unknown future specifications. 

Yes, taking more care over writing the initial code does ease the
problems of later maintenance.  Your 'solutions' do not work in anything
other than very restricted environments such as one man bands (even if
there are two working with much the same style).


> > Nobody is claiming that your code doesn't *work* Mr. Dilworth. What I
> > keep harping on is the issue of maintenance, and it's an issue that
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> Sorry for ignoring it, but I don't have a problem with maintenance.

No. _YOU_ don;t have a problem because you _know_ what the code does
when you look at it because you rely on your memory.  That is there is
no need for you to communicate to the future in your _code_.  Where the
problem lies is in someone new attempting to maintain your code where
your memory is not part of what they will be looking at.

> Some of the software in my POS software systems was written by
> some one else. 

Presumably under your direction and following your 'style'.

> Every program was written in strict accordance with a
> comprehensive set of standards all designed with ease-of-maintenance
> in mind.

Exactly, though from your comments I don't see 'comprehensive' as being
valid. Perhaps you mean that in 1986 you had a coder 'do it Tony's way'.
 
> There is a lot more to my minimalist methodology than you are aware
> of. My standards cover far more than paragraph-names and extend to
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> judge me in the dark - they are part of the methodology.

I judge you on what you say.  Not so much for your 'minimalist
methodology' but for the rejection that you have of everyone else's
ideas.  I can recognise your position and sympathise with where you have
gone, I, too, have worked alone for many years.  It is very tempting to
take minimalist views and rely on memory.  However, I have grown out of
that and recognise to failings that the others deride you for.

 
> Perhaps, if you could see the entire picture, your opinion might be
> different, you might even learn a thing or two - ha ha! If nothing
> else, perhaps I am entitled to the benefit of the doubt, from a
> professional point-of-view, of course.

Been there, done that, grew up.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** cbass2112@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
  Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:

> That's right, it worked then and it works now.

Why are you convinced that applying newer methods won't work *better*
than what allegedly works now?  After all, if *everyone* subscribed to
your philosophy, we'd all still be living in caves.


Curtis


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 11)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rcgth$hji$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
  cbass2112@my-deja.com wrote:
> In article <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
>   Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> Curtis

Hi:

Your cave comment is silly.

From what I have seen of newer methods, I do not see any
advantage to using them over the methods I use. See the
thread 'Only for COBOL newbies'.

I think OO is a good example. People go on about OO as
though it was the answer to everything. Judging from
the posts on OO, it seems that hardly anyone really gets it,
hardly anyone actually uses it, and I don't like it.

So there.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D9E1C2.B86B50FD@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgth$hji$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
> Your cave comment is silly.
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> thread 'Only for COBOL newbies'.

Obviously you don't.  Equally obviously, people who have maintained
other people's code written in the older methods and in the newer
methods do see the big advantage.
 
> I think OO is a good example. People go on about OO as
> though it was the answer to everything. Judging from
> the posts on OO, it seems that hardly anyone really gets it,
> hardly anyone actually uses it, and I don't like it.

Agreed.  (except lots of GUI programmers like it).  But whenever there
is evidence on how well it works for the type of programming I do - I
hope my mind is still open and that I can objectively accept what the
evidence shows.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** cbass2112@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rd4de$2ja$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgth$hji$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8rcgth$hji$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
  Foodman <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
> In article <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
>   cbass2112@my-deja.com wrote:
…[13 more quoted lines elided]…
> Your cave comment is silly.

It may be "silly" to the recipient of the implied criticism, but it is
accurate nonetheless.

> From what I have seen of newer methods, I do not see any
> advantage to using them over the methods I use.

You've *seen* the methods; have you actually *tried* them? Also, is the
fact that you "do not see any advantage" in no way due to your not
*wanting* to see any advantage?

You have posted a coding example to justify not using EVALUATE, but the
code sample is not functionally equivalent to the EVALUATE example:

http://x62.deja.com/[ST_rn=ps]/threadmsg_ct.xp?AN=670543266.1

You admit to writing spaghetti code:

http://x62.deja.com/[ST_rn=ps]/threadmsg_ct.xp?AN=670349085.1

You admit to using meaningless paragraph names:

http://x62.deja.com/[ST_rn=ps]/getdoc.xp?AN=676164548

Yet you call your approach "minimalist" which gives it far too much
credit. Your methods aren't "minimalist," they are simply archaic.  Yes,
your code works, but the point you keep not getting is that your methods
are:

a) Not maintainable, your claims to the contrary notwithstanding, and

b) Not scalable.

You keep asking,"why have different standards for different sized
projects?" but that's the wrong question; the same standard should apply
to all projects regardless of size. The problem is that your
"minimalist" methods do break down when a project size expands beyond a
one-man shop and moves into the realm of a dozen (or a hundred)
programmers producing 50,000 (or several million) lines of code spread
out over a couple of dozen (or a few hundred) source modules.

Your methods also break down when someone other than you is doing the
maintenance.

These are facts learned painfully over decades of software development
practice. These facts are why the methods you disdain were developed in
the first place; they were not created in an ivory tower vacuum.

If you wish to ignore the lessons of history because you are unwilling
to learn something new, that's fine. However, don't expect me or others
like me to remain silent when you try to foist your methods on newbies,
because they don't need to learn such outdated methods, beyond
understanding *why* they are outdated.

The odds of their working in a multi-person shop are far greater than
the odds of their working in their own one-programmer shops, and even if
they were lone programmers working in one-man shops, at some point,
their code *will* have to be maintained by someone else, or simply be
scrapped.

That holds true for your code as well, Mr. Dilworth.

> See the thread 'Only for COBOL newbies'.

I have *participated* in that thread, Mr. Dilworth:

http://x62.deja.com/[ST_rn=ps]/threadmsg_ct.xp?AN=672056914.1

http://x62.deja.com/[ST_rn=ps]/threadmsg_ct.xp?AN=671413104.1

http://x62.deja.com/[ST_rn=ps]/threadmsg_ct.xp?AN=671627295.1

The last one discusses scalability.

> I think OO is a good example. People go on about OO as
> though it was the answer to everything.

Anyone who goes on about *anything* as if though it was "the answer to
everything" should be taken with several grains of salt. However, that
should not necessarily invalidate whatever it was that they were "going
on" about.  One must learn to separate facts from hyperbole.

> Judging from the posts on OO, it seems that hardly anyone really gets
> it,

How would you be able to know? Do *you* get it?

> hardly anyone actually uses it

You're kidding, yes?

> and I don't like it.

Well, that doesn't surprise me.

Look, I understand the object paradigm as well as the structured
paradigm. I understand where each should and shouldn't be used. I do
*not* understand advocating spaghetti code, nor do I understand how
anyone could claim spaghetti code to be "maintainable" or "efficient."



Curtis


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 13)_

- **From:** Liam Devlin <liamddd@optonline.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T03:41:22+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DAA6CA.AF0CAE6E@optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgth$hji$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rd4de$2ja$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
cbass2112@my-deja.com wrote:
> 
> In article <8rcgth$hji$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
…[24 more quoted lines elided]…
> You've *seen* the methods; have you actually *tried* them?

I suggest a better first question for this guy would have been "did you
understand them?". Foodman reminds me of Otto in "A Fish Called Wanda",
but without the charm.

LiamD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DAE6B0.AB8C5981@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgth$hji$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:

>
> I think OO is a good example. People go on about OO as
> though it was the answer to everything.

It is,  this is my opinion and I am entitled to it.  I respect that your
opinions differ and request that you respect my opinions in the same way.
I regularly find that you lack this respect and therefore your opinions get
like response.


> Judging from the posts on OO,

It is hard to 'get' from a procedural frame.  It is easy to 'get' from a
non programming background because your do not have to unlearn things.
This is an interesting issue don't you think!

You have invested years learning how to do programming your way in a safe
reliable fashion (maintainability by someone else is a totally different
issue notice).  To change this takes a fair amount of personal training and
commitment.


> hardly anyone actually uses it.

In this industry there are no golden bullets!   Work is required for all
real solutions.  The  density of books on OO-cobol is increasing telling me
there isa market.  I hope that these changes start small,  I have seen to
many big bang failures (CS90 - Westpac Australia is one).

> and I don't like it.

This really is the point isn't it.  Is this really relevant, you have said
it,  you are entitled to say it again to remind us.   I would prefer it was
not so regular and in totally unrealted threads though!
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** Liam Devlin <liamddd@optonline.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T03:38:26+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DAA61A.71E13EC3@optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rcgth$hji$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
> In article <8rb4c1$g6l$1@nnrp1.deja.com>,
…[17 more quoted lines elided]…
> advantage to using them over the methods I use.

You're a fine one to mention "silly" on this NG, with your bizarre
notions of coding to the '68 standard.

LiamD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<Pm8C5.8321$l35.171535@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>, Foodman  <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:
>
>
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
>system, therefore, all systems are subject to the 'Dilworth Anomaly'.

Mr Dilworth, your thinking is the result of inhabiting said 'Anomaly';
others can judge the validity (or lack thereof) of your conclusions.

>
>How do you know how small my set of programs is?

Spies.

>
>> >BTW, how do you know what I am familiar with? All you know is
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
>That's right

... and you didn't see the conclusion?  Perhaps such is the result of
living in the 'Dilworth Anomaly'.

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 10)_

- **From:** "Jeff Baynard" <union27@macconnect.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Never fails, eh?  These are awfully lofty statements for anyone, in any 
profession.  These types of statements make some people immediately de-value
or dis-credit you.

Part of being a good programmer is understanding when you are wrong, and
taking advice.  And not acting like your methods are the only way to write
good code.

The question is, what impact, percentage wise, does your coding style have
on meeting the goals stated below?

What else can you attribute your amazingly unbreakable programs to?  Also, I
have no desire to see source code.  Thanks.

Jeff


----------
In article <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com>, Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
wrote:


> That's right, it worked then and it works now. The reason I do
> things the way that I do is because it is fast, inexpensive,
> efficient, produces dependable and maintainable code, is highly
> portable, easy-to-use, self-explanatory, never fails, etc. etc.,
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 11)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rchae$huc$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com>`

```
In article <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com>,
  "Jeff Baynard" <union27@macconnect.com> wrote:
> Never fails, eh?  These are awfully lofty statements for anyone, in
any
> profession.  These types of statements make some people immediately
de-value
> or dis-credit you.


Hi:

As I have said elsewhere and more than once all I do is state facts.
I just said the following in another post and I will say it again. I
have about 600 customers all over the world and the only time they
call is if they have had some sort of hardware problem. They do
NOT call because my software fails.

I am sorry if this annoys you.


> Part of being a good programmer is understanding when you are wrong,
and
> taking advice.  And not acting like your methods are the only way to
write
> good code.


I agree. They are not the only methods, obviously. I just think
they are hard to beat.

>
> The question is, what impact, percentage wise, does your coding style
have
> on meeting the goals stated below?


I think the style makes it all possible.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DAE798.F57A2871@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <8rchae$huc$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:

> As I have said elsewhere and more than once all I do is state facts.
> I just said the following in another post and I will say it again. I
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
>

This does not mean the software does not fail, it just means they do not
call!!!!!!

Reliable software does not imply maintainability!

Ken
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 13)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rhsei$uds$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <8rchae$huc$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DAE798.F57A2871@zip.com.au>`

```

>
> This does not mean the software does not fail, it just means they do
not
> call!!!!!!
>
> Reliable software does not imply maintainability!
>
> Ken


Hi:

These are point-of-sale systems. The users are totally dependent
upon them for their business. If they have a problem they are
up the creek and may even have to close their business, can
you imagine a supermarket switching over to manual checkout?

Of course they call if they have a problem and they don't wait
for two days either.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 14)_

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-10-06T08:26:33+11:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DCF208.4C7BEA4B@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <8rchae$huc$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DAE798.F57A2871@zip.com.au> <8rhsei$uds$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:

> >
> > This does not mean the software does not fail, it just means they do
…[15 more quoted lines elided]…
> for two days either.

User's actually work around problems and not tell you,  this is a fact of
life.  Perhaps you have a memory overrun and if they reboot the program
then works.   They have now got a work around and simply do not tell you.

Perhaps they have an incredibly complex way of using your software,  they
follow procedures for years without change,  they just do not work
efficiently.   This is as much a bug as a crash.

Perhaps there is a message on a report that does not affect anything but
there is a still a problem.  For example if you have this message add $50
onto the total to balance.  These are things I have seen people actually
do for years before I sat next to them when they were doing their work.

There is no such thing as bug free!

Ken
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** Liam Devlin <liamddd@optonline.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T03:42:21+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DAA706.E3AF3F7D@optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <8rchae$huc$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
> In article <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com>,
…[9 more quoted lines elided]…
> As I have said elsewhere and more than once all I do is state facts.

ROTFLMAO - you & Bush. You're both pissers.

LiamD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 11)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com>`

```


Jeff Baynard wrote:
> 
> Never fails, eh?  These are awfully lofty statements for anyone, in any
> profession.  These types of statements make some people immediately de-value
> or dis-credit you.

When he works on these programs which never fail, he has some huge
number of bug fixes per hour.  

I have been trying to picture how someone could be working on 60 (I
don't remember his figure) bugs in the same week, much less the same
hour.  Maybe he misspells environment division and counts the 60 errors
it made as 60 bugs.

Maybe the inferior structured style I use just hides bugs so that I
don't find them and they don't effect the results.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 12)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rhsjs$uhe$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net>`

```
In article <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net>,>
> When he works on these programs which never fail, he has some huge
> number of bug fixes per hour.
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> hour.  Maybe he misspells environment division and counts the 60
errors
> it made as 60 bugs.


Hi:

I am sorry, but I do not know what all this is about. What 60 bugs?
Please explain.

>
> Maybe the inferior structured style I use just hides bugs so that I
> don't find them and they don't effect the results.

Possibly. . .

Thanks

Tony Dilworth


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 13)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DC8DD2.8C9DA673@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net> <8rhsjs$uhe$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
> 
> I am sorry, but I do not know what all this is about. What 60 bugs?
> Please explain.
> 

It might be my memory playing tricks on me.  Someone who advocates a
drop through structure was saying that he can fix a certain number of
bugs per hour.  I don't remember the number, but 60 sounds about right.  

I figure he must be a sloppy coder who gets 60 syntax messages on his
first compile and fixes them.  

But if they really are 60 bugs, my hat is off to the programmer.  To
discover them, analyze them, fix them, unit test the programs, system
test the programs, document the fix, and put them into production in one
hour is pretty good.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 14)_

- **From:** "Cliff Peterson" <cliff.peterson@spamcop.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-05T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<mb5D5.6710$Ly1.76538@news5.giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net> <8rhsjs$uhe$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DC8DD2.8C9DA673@brazee.net>`

```

On  5-Oct-2000, Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net> wrote:

> > I am sorry, but I do not know what all this is about. What 60 bugs?
> > Please explain.
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> bugs per hour.  I don't remember the number, but 60 sounds about right.

I think he said that he could write 70 debugged lines of COBOL per hour,
besting the old saw that a COBOL programmer averaged about 6 lines of
debugged code a day.  60's babble.

I don't think most organizations put much stock in that old stuff.  They
used to count the planning time (zero lines per day), bathroom time (zero
lines per ...), meetings, HMO presentations, vacation, ad nauseum.  How do
you quantify this crap?  If I use a copybook, do I get to count the lines? 
If not, do I get credit if I just paste the copybook stuff in my program? 
Are they hard or easy programs?

And... debugged lines?  It simply means that you've found all the problems
you're capable of finding, not all the problems.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 13)_

- **From:** Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2000-10-06T08:24:55+01:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DD7E47.F5D4215@Azonic.co.nz>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net> <8rhsjs$uhe$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
> > I have been trying to picture how someone could be working on 60 (I
> > don't remember his figure) bugs in the same week, much less the same
> > hour.  Maybe he misspells environment division and counts the 60
> errors
> > it made as 60 bugs.

> I am sorry, but I do not know what all this is about. What 60 bugs?
> Please explain.

The number was 76.  You claimed that you fixed 76 bugs per hour.  

I suspect that you really meant that you wrote a program and debugged it
and dividing the lines by hours gave 76 debugged lines per hour, but you
didn't phrase it well.

While this number may well look good against quoted 10 or 11 lines per
hour in corporate sites, I can claim much higher rates over sjort time
scales, such as 100,000 line new system running live after 8 weeks from
go ahead (including system design and installation).
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 14)_

- **From:** G Moore <gvwmoore@spam.ix.netcom.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-07T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<d1ruts4vm6k456dkv6123s2e0q90g87t63@4ax.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net> <8rhsjs$uhe$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DD7E47.F5D4215@Azonic.co.nz>`

```

>> I am sorry, but I do not know what all this is about. What 60 bugs?
>> Please explain.
>The number was 76.  You claimed that you fixed 76 bugs per hour.  

>I suspect that you really meant that you wrote a program and debugged it
>and dividing the lines by hours gave 76 debugged lines per hour, but you
>didn't phrase it well.

well, if you knew the bugs, or if the bugs were well-defed (such as
make this y2k compatible) 76 per hour is only about 1 per minute.


reply to email gvwmoore@spam.ix.netcom.com remove the spam
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 15)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-07T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DF7858.1D072C0D@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net> <8rhsjs$uhe$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DD7E47.F5D4215@Azonic.co.nz> <d1ruts4vm6k456dkv6123s2e0q90g87t63@4ax.com>`

```

G Moore wrote:
> 
> well, if you knew the bugs, or if the bugs were well-defed (such as
> make this y2k compatible) 76 per hour is only about 1 per minute.

Well, if they were 76 occurrences of the same bug in one program, and
there was no analysis necessary, we could correct all occurrence in 5
minutes, compile into a test development, spend 20 minutes unit testing
all possibilities, 20 minutes in system test, and 15 minutes in
implementation - if the documentation is done simultaneously with system
testing.

But there is ALWAYS some analysis necessary, and I wouldn't call 76
occurrences of the same Y2K problem in a program 76 bugs.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 16)_

- **From:** G Moore <gvwmoore@spam.ix.netcom.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-09T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<h100usovter9slfu8mmmmcj3hkqkp4kp5g@4ax.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net> <8rhsjs$uhe$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DD7E47.F5D4215@Azonic.co.nz> <d1ruts4vm6k456dkv6123s2e0q90g87t63@4ax.com> <39DF7858.1D072C0D@brazee.net>`

```
Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net> wrote:

>But there is ALWAYS some analysis necessary, and I wouldn't call 76
>occurrences of the same Y2K problem in a program 76 bugs.

i'm not certain if testing is contained in the def of debugging.

reply to email gvwmoore@spam.ix.netcom.com remove the spam
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 17)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-10T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39E31B63.C7D2FD47@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <vFQB5.7961$l35.163121@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r9q6j$bu1$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <8rb4gn021ct@enews3.newsguy.com> <39D9DBBA.EEDA636B@brazee.net> <8rhsjs$uhe$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DD7E47.F5D4215@Azonic.co.nz> <d1ruts4vm6k456dkv6123s2e0q90g87t63@4ax.com> <39DF7858.1D072C0D@brazee.net> <h100usovter9slfu8mmmmcj3hkqkp4kp5g@4ax.com>`

```

G Moore wrote:
> 
> Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net> wrote:
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> i'm not certain if testing is contained in the def of debugging.

I am.  If it hasn't been tested, I'm not finished.  

When a user asks how long it will take to fix a bug, I have to tell him
how long it will take for him to get the finished product.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** Calvin Crumrine <Calvin_Crumrine@dced.state.ak.us>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DBA07D.FA8C3CAE@dced.state.ak.us>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <20HB5.7893$l35.159266@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7lvq$qci$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <BeJB5.7916$l35.160331@iad-read.news.verio.net> <8r7u85$e7$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:

> >
> > Mr Dilworth, this 'screwed-uppedness' allows the rest of the 'Coding
…[21 more quoted lines elided]…
> Tony Dilworth

I'd say we can pretty much tell what you're familiar with by the standards
you promote.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 4)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```


Foodman wrote:
> 
> I think the same is true of paragraph-names.  Just because the
…[31 more quoted lines elided]…
> it does in the way that it does it that requires comment.

I can see the advantage of that.  But it fits your philosophy where you
know what you have written.  People who use structured code like being
able to glance at a paragraph and have a good idea what each performed
paragraph does.  In the middle of the night, we can pull out someone
else's code and quickly see the structure and point to relevant code.

Sure, it occasionally is a lie, but unless we're into OO, we quickly see
the lie.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 5)_

- **From:** Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T08:30:59+01:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net>`

```
> Foodman wrote:
> >
> > I think the same is true of paragraph-names.  Just because the
> > paragraph is called DETERMINE-KUMQUAT-QUOTIENT doesn't necessarily mean
> > that that is what it does. 

Is this a comment on your _own_ code ?  You should try to improve your
naming technique.

> > It might have when the program was
> > originally written, but, over time, it might have been changed and
> > the change not documented, nor paragraph re-named.

Why has the name not been changed ?  Why do you change the content of
the paragraph without renaming ?

> > Anyway, in my minimalist fashion, I don't use meaningful para-names.
> > Instead, I use short names which serve merely as a reference point
> > within the program. If you want to know what the code in a para does,
> > then one must read the code.

If you designed a new language would you use short meaningless names for
the statements and functions on the basis that 'if they want to know
what a statement does they can read the machine code' ?

> > Short, meaningless names are easier to use. The code is less
> > cluttered than with big, long, 'meaningful' paragraph names.
> > They take less time to type.

I, too, primarily work alone and have the luxury of setting my own
standards.  However, I moved on from what I did in the 60s.  I inhereted
some systems written by an associate where he had a style similar to how
you write.  He had started programming in the 50s on a LEO machine and
retired.

I can recognise both sides of your argument.  I, too, can look at my
code and know exactly what it does without needing 'meaningful'
paragraph names, I can also look at the inhereted code and see the
problems when someone writes in your style and it has to be maintained
by someone else.

Presumably when you retire the whole lot will be binned and your
customers will get other software.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "Chuck Stevens" <charles.stevens@unisys.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8raub5$a11$1@mail.pl.unisys.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz>`

```

Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote in message
news:39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz...

<snip>

> However, I moved on from what I did in the 60s.  I inhereted
> some systems written by an associate where he had a style similar to how
> you write.  He had started programming in the 50s on a LEO machine and
> retired.

This brought up a memory.  The single WORST COBOL program I ever had the
misfortune to examine (some twenty years ago now) was originally written as
a cross-reference and flowcharting utility for COBOL programs.  It was
obvious from the code that the author had clearly spent most of his/her
programming career writing in some early dialect of FORTRAN (numeric labels,
most subscripts in the form "I", "J", etc., following the default integer
typing of such items in that language, and so forth).

It was also clear that this person had very recently discovered the ALTER
verb, thought to him/herself "That's really neat!", and used this
application as a good place to explore, and even exhaust, its possibilities,
even in environments in which it added no functionality.   As a result, the
entire program had as I recall been structured around unnamed GO TO's in
ALTERed paragraphs; named GO TO's to unaltered labels were few and far
between.

By the time I examined the program, only the cross-reference portion was
still functional; the flowcharting part had been disabled and in large part
(but by no means totally) excized.

Figuring out the program flow was well-nigh impossible, and all my efforts
at deleting what, based on internal evidence, was dead code involving the
now-disabled flowcharting functionality (to help clarify the program flow!)
were unsuccessful.

The utility, along with the platform on which it ran, has long since been
rendered obsolete.

    -Chuck Stevens
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** Liam Devlin <liamddd@optonline.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D991E9.C15D0EF5@optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <8raub5$a11$1@mail.pl.unisys.com>`

```
Chuck Stevens wrote:
> 
> Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote in message
…[15 more quoted lines elided]…
> typing of such items in that language, and so forth).

I stumbled upon a similar program about 10 years ago, obviously written
by someone with a lot of experience with S/360 Assembler. It used 8-char
names, lots of GO TO's, etc. It wasn't really a COBOL program, it was an
Assembler program written in COBOL notation. (if I remember, I'll try to
find it & post it for the world to see. It's not very big and might be
of interest to some. Might also spark some lively debate about COBOL, of
all things <g>).

LiamD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** Howard Brazee <howard@brazee.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D9DC4A.845CF650@brazee.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <8raub5$a11$1@mail.pl.unisys.com> <39D991E9.C15D0EF5@optonline.net>`

```
Liam Devlin wrote:
> 
> I stumbled upon a similar program about 10 years ago, obviously written
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> LiamD

The other-language code which made sense to me was what looked to be a
BASIC program, written in a macro-assembler.  Very easy to do - but it
only makes sense to avoid the BASIC interpreter.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** Arnold Trembley <arnold.trembley@worldnet.att.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T02:55:01+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DA9B55.DD3A8CED@worldnet.att.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <8raub5$a11$1@mail.pl.unisys.com> <39D991E9.C15D0EF5@optonline.net>`

```
Liam Devlin wrote:
> (snip)
> I stumbled upon a similar program about 10 years ago, obviously written
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> LiamD

I used to have to maintain several programs that looked just like that. 
Please post the example.  It should be good for a few chuckles.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<JgDC5.12267$l35.183414@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8raub5$a11$1@mail.pl.unisys.com> <39D991E9.C15D0EF5@optonline.net> <39DA9B55.DD3A8CED@worldnet.att.net>`

```
In article <39DA9B55.DD3A8CED@worldnet.att.net>,
Arnold Trembley  <arnold.trembley@worldnet.att.net> wrote:
>Liam Devlin wrote:
>> (snip)
…[10 more quoted lines elided]…
>I used to have to maintain several programs that looked just like that. 

... but then you ran it throught a Restructuring Program... and now
instead of

GO TO GRLMBLZM

... it reads ...

PERFORM D9321570-GRLMBLZM-ROUTINE THRU D9321570-GRLMBLZM-ROUTINE-EXIT.

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "James J. Gavan" <jjgavan@home.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-02T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D905B8.C8FC82CA@home.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz>`

```


Richard Plinston wrote:
> 
> > Foodman wrote:
…[7 more quoted lines elided]…
> customers will get other software.

Nah. He'll have it fed into a LECTOR, archived and then have it stored
in the basement of the British Museum for posterity. They'll only touch
it because they've already got the Rosetta stone. The Smithsonian
wouldn't give it a second look. <G>

Tony - when those nuns that taught you as a kid make it to the Pearly
Gates - they're gonna have a hell of a price to pay before they get in !

Jimmy
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rcidi$iit$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz>`

```
In article <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz>,
  Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote:
> > Foodman wrote:
> > >
> > > I think the same is true of paragraph-names.  Just because the
> > > paragraph is called DETERMINE-KUMQUAT-QUOTIENT doesn't
necessarily mean
> > > that that is what it does.
>
> Is this a comment on your _own_ code ?  You should try to improve your
> naming technique.

Hi:

What would your name be?

>
> > > It might have when the program was
…[4 more quoted lines elided]…
> the paragraph without renaming ?

I was talking in general about the world in general. Don't ask
me why the name was not changed. I wasn't talking about ME.


>
> > > Anyway, in my minimalist fashion, I don't use meaningful para-
names.
> > > Instead, I use short names which serve merely as a reference point
> > > within the program. If you want to know what the code in a para
does,
> > > then one must read the code.
>
> If you designed a new language would you use short meaningless names
for
> the statements and functions on the basis that 'if they want to know
> what a statement does they can read the machine code' ?

Don't be silly.

> I, too, primarily work alone and have the luxury of setting my own
> standards.  However, I moved on from what I did in the 60s.  I
inhereted
> some systems written by an associate where he had a style similar to
how
> you write.  He had started programming in the 50s on a LEO machine and
> retired.
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> customers will get other software.

You mean when I'm dead. I only spend a couple of hours a day on
my software business. The rest of the time I spend defending myself
in the CLC! Don't you sometimes wonder why I never give up?

Thanks

Tony Dilworth




Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DAE934.6DE5B794@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <8rcidi$iit$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:

>
> Don't you sometimes wonder why I never give up?
>

I have to say it

**** YES ****

Ken
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 8)_

- **From:** Foodman <foodman123@aol.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rf5ct$mnp$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <8rcidi$iit$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DAE934.6DE5B794@zip.com.au>`

```
In article <39DAE934.6DE5B794@zip.com.au>,
  waratah@spamcop.net wrote:
> Foodman wrote:
>
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> Ken

Hi Ken:

One reason I don't is for the newcomers. Obviously, if the entire
CLC consisted of dwarves, it would be pointless other than to
raise their ire.

As you well know, the world of DP, sorry, IT, is a horrible
hodge-podge of different languages, etc. As you also know,
finding people with the exact skill-set required can be
difficult.

This hodge-podge makes it costly to develop and run applications.

Judging by the code presented by students, the standards of
teaching COBOL seem to be pretty poor.

I believe that my minimalist approach is cost-effective on many
levels. Keeping things simple just has to make sense. If you
don't agree with that then I don't know what to say.

Again, I bring up the thread 'Only for COBOL newbies'. In case
you don't remember, I found it silly that new programmers
would be given an umpteen step process to accomplish elementary
funtions. My five-step alternative was derided. All I can
say is that if people choose to use umpteen-step activities when
the same can be accomplished with five, then, again,
I don't know what to say. Perhaps they should take up
time-and-motion study.

Anyway, maybe someone will benefit from my posts. It might make
life simpler if those who consistently sneer at my stuff to just
ignore it. On the other hand, they might think about it more.

So, it is an alternative point of view for the newcomers. Expect
more in the future.

Thanks

Tony Dilworth






Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** docdwarf@clark.net ( NA)
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<uLFC5.12410$l35.183770@iad-read.news.verio.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <8rcidi$iit$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DAE934.6DE5B794@zip.com.au> <8rf5ct$mnp$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
In article <8rf5ct$mnp$1@nnrp1.deja.com>, Foodman  <foodman123@aol.com> wrote:

[snippage]

>Judging by the code presented by students, the standards of
>teaching COBOL seem to be pretty poor.

Mr Dilworth... might that be, perhaps, due to the fact that some of the 
students who *don't* post here are producing better code?  (aside fro the
fact that they're all students, of course)

>
>I believe that my minimalist approach is cost-effective on many
>levels. Keeping things simple just has to make sense.

Keeping things simple can be a horrible mistake, as well... have you never
heard that 'For every complex problem there is a simple, readily apparent
solution... which is WRONG'?

>If you
>don't agree with that then I don't know what to say.

How about 'Gosh... maybe there *are* things unthought-of in the Dilworth
Anomaly!'?

(such as... Production Standards Reviews)

>
>Again, I bring up the thread 'Only for COBOL newbies'. In case
…[6 more quoted lines elided]…
>time-and-motion study.

Mr Dilworth, time-and-motion studies (pioneered, as everyone knows, by
Frederick Winslow Taylor in his 1914 classic 'The Theory of Scientific
Management') are just *fine* for situations which require a human being to
be reduced to mechanised procedures.  Programmers are sometimes called
'knowledge workers'.

>
>Anyway, maybe someone will benefit from my posts. It might make
>life simpler if those who consistently sneer at my stuff to just
>ignore it. On the other hand, they might think about it more.

Oh, I *cannot* resist... 

... and maybe they'll see just how *not* to do things, as well.

DD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 9)_

- **From:** Ken Foskey <waratah@zip.com.au>
- **Date:** 2000-10-05T08:46:41+11:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DBA541.3B648B49@zip.com.au>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <8rcidi$iit$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39DAE934.6DE5B794@zip.com.au> <8rf5ct$mnp$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:

> As you well know, the world of DP, sorry, IT, is a horrible
> hodge-podge of different languages, etc. As you also know,
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
> This hodge-podge makes it costly to develop and run applications.

100% agree.   This unfortunately includes a hodgepodge of writing using
the same language.

> Judging by the code presented by students, the standards of
> teaching COBOL seem to be pretty poor.

Agreed.  They should be taught to use:

- Meaningful variable and section names.
- Sub programs to break up programs
- To use 'end' constructs to make their code stronger.
- To know how to develop an application not a single two page program.

> I believe that my minimalist approach is cost-effective on many
> levels. Keeping things simple just has to make sense. If you
> don't agree with that then I don't know what to say.

I agree strongly with this however using the full production techiniques
must ingrained from day one for students,  knowing WHEN to break them is
another matter this takes experience.

I have also found when I skimp on my coding standards

a)  That one off program ends up running daily.
b)  Following good coding practice has saved me time, not following it
has cost me time.

The question is, what is minimalist, what is rapid application
development techinques that are reliable in the setting that you are
working.   Is is just possible that the techniques that are using are
working because you are a single programmer shop?

Ken
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** Calvin Crumrine <Calvin_Crumrine@dced.state.ak.us>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DBA3CB.1387E6A0@dced.state.ak.us>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <8rcidi$iit$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:

> In article <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz>,
> > Presumably when you retire the whole lot will be binned and your
…[8 more quoted lines elided]…
> Tony Dilworth

Nothing better to do?
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** Liam Devlin <liamddd@optonline.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T03:45:58+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39DAA7DE.78F0DE4@optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <8rcidi$iit$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`

```
Foodman wrote:
> 
(snip)
> 
> You mean when I'm dead. I only spend a couple of hours a day on
> my software business. The rest of the time I spend defending myself
> in the CLC! Don't you sometimes wonder why I never give up?

No. I hope this doesn't burst your bubble or anything, but when I'm not
reading CLC I never think about you.

LiamD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 6)_

- **From:** "Cliff Peterson" <cliff.peterson@spamcop.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T02:33:42+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<XxbC5.1064$UP5.18571@news6.giganews.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz>`

```

On  2-Oct-2000, Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote:

> > > Anyway, in my minimalist fashion, I don't use meaningful para-names.
> > > Instead, I use short names which serve merely as a reference point
…[5 more quoted lines elided]…
> what a statement does they can read the machine code' ?

My worst assignment was working on a system written by a guy who believed
that paragraph names and variables should be named after cars.

In another case, I looked at a FORTRAN system where all the variables were
swear words.  I ran from that one, though.

There are still people who try to put this in every COBOL program:
ADD VERMOUTH TO VODKA GIVING MARTINI.

Cliff
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** cbass2112@my-deja.com
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8rcq44$p5q$1@nnrp1.deja.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <XxbC5.1064$UP5.18571@news6.giganews.com>`

```
In article <XxbC5.1064$UP5.18571@news6.giganews.com>,
  cliff.peterson@spamcop.net wrote:

-- snip --

> There are still people who try to put this in every COBOL program:
> ADD VERMOUTH TO VODKA GIVING MARTINI.
>
> Cliff

The worst abuse I ever heard was PERFORM UNNATURAL-ACT.

I'm sure these people think they're being clever, but I think they
should be shot.

Curtis


Sent via Deja.com http://www.deja.com/
Before you buy.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** Liam Devlin <liamddd@optonline.net>
- **Date:** 2000-10-03T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<39D992DE.CDB56CF8@optonline.net>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <XxbC5.1064$UP5.18571@news6.giganews.com>`

```
Cliff Peterson wrote:
> 
> On  2-Oct-2000, Richard Plinston <riplin@Azonic.co.nz> wrote:
…[11 more quoted lines elided]…
> that paragraph names and variables should be named after cars.

This rings a bell. Anyone else remember the early D-level Assembler for
DOS (1966-ish). IBM apparently contracted with someone who had a lively
interest in American indians and the Assembler had CSECT names of
APACHE, MOHICAN, etc. They disappeared in a release ot two.

LiamD
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

_(reply depth: 7)_

- **From:** Alistair Maclean <LD50Macca@ld50macca.demon.co.uk>
- **Date:** 2000-10-04T00:00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<8O3r1yAo4425EwqP@ld50macca.demon.co.uk>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com> <8r7ab2$ifv$1@nnrp1.deja.com> <39D889E3.9554144B@brazee.net> <39D98B33.41CD049A@Azonic.co.nz> <XxbC5.1064$UP5.18571@news6.giganews.com>`

```
In article <XxbC5.1064$UP5.18571@news6.giganews.com>, Cliff Peterson
<cliff.peterson@spamcop.net> writes
>
>
…[3 more quoted lines elided]…
>Cliff

I understand, from a friend who knows rather more about cocktails than I
do, that the above mix is not a proper martini but is a vodkatini (or
vodka martini), as drunk by Bond, James Bond... The real martini
requires gin and vermouth WITH AN OLIVE. If you use a silverskin onion
instead of the olive then it is a Gibson.
```

###### ↳ ↳ ↳ Re: comment on comments

- **From:** "Doug_xx2" <doug_xx2@yahoo.com>
- **Date:** 2000-10-01T02:31:24+00:00
- **Newsgroups:** comp.lang.cobol
- **Message-ID:** `<0mxB5.7579$bK6.1359089@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com>`
- **References:** `<20000930094644.23407.00000275@ng-ft1.aol.com> <x6qB5.5224$bK6.965365@typhoon.nyroc.rr.com> <8r61oe02rqg@enews2.newsguy.com>`

```
well actually I wrote this program and the rest of the system it is part of
in college. the reason for the comments is that the instructor INSISTED on
them I actually wrote the program and came back and put the comments in I
felt at the time they were a waste of time myself and almost deleted them
after I turned in the project. I left them in in this post because I thought
that maybe the person asking for them was looking for something to help him
teach himself cobol and I thought the comments might help. but I appreciate
the compliment that it is good.

Thank you very much
Doug_xx2
```

---

[← Index](../README.md) · [Topics](../topics.md) · [Years](../years.md) · [Subjects](../subjects.md) · [Authors](../authors.md)
